Non-destructive testing:
NDT in construction is a range of techniques used to evaluate the properties, composition, and integrity of materials and structures without causing damage.
The construction industry, pivotal in shaping urban environments, faces increasing pressure to adopt sustainable practices in response to global challenges such as resource depletion, environmental degradation, and the need for durable infrastructure. The circular economy model emerges as a transformative approach aimed at minimizing waste, maximizing resource efficiency, and enhancing the lifecycle of materials through reuse and recycling.
This shift towards circularity is necessitated by the urgent need to reduce the construction sector's stantial environmental footprint, characterized by high material consumption and significant waste generation. NDT methods are crucial in this transition, offering innovative solutions for assessing the condition and longevity of construction materials without compromising their structural integrity.
The extensive review detailed in this document serves multiple core objectives:
    Elucidate Deterioration Mechanisms: Examine the various ways in which key construction materials such as concrete, wood, steel, and masonry deteriorate over time, influenced by environmental and operational stresses.
    Explore NDT Methods: Discuss how NDT methods facilitate the assessment and management of construction materials, enabling their effective integration into circular economy models without the need for invasive and potentially destructive methods.
    Integrate Data-Driven Models: The discussion extends to how NDT data can be synergistically integrated with predictive modeling techniques. This integration aims to forecast material behavior, predict potential failures, and inform strategic maintenance decisions, thus enhancing the durability and reliability of structural components.
    Optimize Digital Workflows: It showcases the pivotal role of NDT data in enhancing digital workflows within building inspection and SHM domains. This optimization improves the efficiency and effectiveness of operations, ensuring that structures meet safety and performance standards throughout their lifecycle.
Transitioning to Circularity: The Role of Key Construction Materials


Conclusion
The application of NDT methods in conjunction with advanced data-driven models and digital workflows represents a transformative development in the construction industry. This integration supports more accurate assessments, enhances predictive maintenance, and contributes to the sustainability and resilience of built environments. Through in-depth case studies and empirical research, this review underscores the significant benefits of modern NDT technologies, establishing them as critical tools for future-proofing infrastructure against the increasing demands of the modern world. 
Deterioration Mechanisms and NDT Methods
Concrete

Reinforced concrete is a composite material in which concrete's compressive strength and steel's tensile strength are combined to form a structural material that is capable of bearing a variety of loads. The integration of steel reinforcement with concrete provides a material that is well-suited for a wide range of construction applications from buildings and bridges to roads and dams. This widespread use is due to reinforced concrete's ability to be molded into various shapes before it hardens, as well as its relative affordability and availability of raw materials.
The properties of reinforced concrete make it a popular choice in construction. Its versatility allows architects and engineers to pursue innovative designs and forms. Moreover, concrete's thermal mass contributes to energy efficiency in buildings, reducing heating and cooling demands. However, the production of cement, a key ingredient in concrete, is associated with high levels of CO2 emissions, accounting for approximately 8% of global CO2 emissions. These emissions arise from both the chemical processes involved in cement production and the energy-intensive nature of the processes.
Addressing the ecological impact of concrete involves extending the material'92s durability and exploring alternative materials. Extending the durability of reinforced concrete not only reduces the frequency of repairs and replacements but also lessens the demand for new concrete, thereby decreasing the associated carbon footprint. Furthermore, a deeper understanding of the material properties and the effects of environmental exposures can lead to more resilient structures, enhancing safety and reducing maintenance costs over time.
The industry is also exploring the use of alternative binders, aggregates, and activators in the production of concrete to lower its environmental impact. These alternatives often involve industrial byproducts such as fly ash and slag, which can partially replace cement in concrete mixes. The development and implementation of such materials are driven by the need to reduce CO2 emissions while maintaining the functional properties of concrete.
The deterioration mechanisms of reinforced concrete, including carbonation, corrosion of the reinforcing steel, leaching, and chloride penetration, lead to various forms of visible degradation such as spalling and cracking. These mechanisms often manifest through similar physical symptoms in the concrete structure, making it challenging to accurately diagnose the root cause of the deterioration without proper testing. For example, both chloride penetration and carbonation can result in the corrosion of steel reinforcement, yet the treatment and preventive measures for each are distinct. Chloride-induced corrosion typically requires strategies such as the use of chloride-resistant materials or coatings, whereas carbonation might be addressed by enhancing the concrete'92s alkalinity through specific mix designs. Similarly, the leaching of calcium can weaken the matrix of the concrete, resembling the effects of physical wear and tear but requiring chemical stabilization as a remedy. Accurate identification of the underlying deterioration mechanism through comprehensive testing improves the application of the correct remedial actions that will effectively prolong the life of a concrete structure and ensure its safety and functionality.

Deterioration Mechanisms of Concrete
In the following , we will describe the main deterioration mechanisms of reinforced concrete. It is important not to confuse these mechanisms with the symptoms or effects they cause, which can sometimes appear similar even though the underlying causes may differ. utilize a classification that distinguishes between "mechanical" deterioration mechanisms (caused by physical actions) and deterioration mechanisms due to environmental interactions (except for the freeze-thaw cycle, all of them are chemical interactions). Along with a brief description of the phenomenon, we identify the main NDT used to detect and assess the condition of the concrete concerning these mechanisms. A good introduction, explanation, and taxonomy of these tests is done. For further information on the ject of concrete degradation and the NDT used to detect it, it is recommended to use Tables 1 and 2 of this reference as a guide. An approach using as a source, not the causes, but the symptoms of concrete degradation is done, where it is cross-related the concrete imperfections with the NDT techniques adopted.

Classification of Deterioration mechanisms on reinforced concrete:
Mechanical
    Overloading: Structural damage due to loads exceeding the strength for which the concrete was designed.
    Temperature: Stresses induced by variations in temperature, leading to expansion or contraction.
    Shrinkage: Cracks and other forms of stress resulting from the reduction in volume as concrete dries.
    Fire: Compromised structural integrity and spalling due to high temperatures.

Durability and Environmental Impact

    Freeze and Thaw: Damage from the expansion of water as it freezes within the concrete, leading to cracking and scaling.
    Carbonation: Reduction in pH caused by carbon dioxide from the air reacting with the concrete, which can lead to corrosion of steel reinforcement .
    Chloride Penetration: Degradation, often leading to reinforcement corrosion, caused by chloride ions infiltrating the concrete.
    Corrosion: Deterioration of embedded steel reinforcement due to chemical reactions, often accelerated by chlorides and carbonation.
    Alkali-Aggregate Reaction (AAR): Expansion and cracking resulting from a reaction between the alkaline cement paste and reactive aggregates. 
    Sulphate Attack: Expansion and deterioration as a result of chemical reactions between sulfate ions and components of the cement paste.
    Leaching: Loss of material due to the dissolution of mineral components in the concrete, often leading to a reduction in strength.
     Ammonium Nitrate Attack: Severe chemical attack that can lead to expansive reactions and cracking, often a concern in agricultural settings.

Overloading
Overloading in concrete structures can lead to various types of structural damage, most notably cracking and deformation. Overloading occurs when the weight or stress imposed on a structure exceeds its designed load-bearing capacity. This can result from excessive weight, impact damage, or environmental stresses such as thermal expansion.  NDT methods can be used for early detection and monitoring of such defects to prevent structural failures.
One innovative approach for detecting cracks due to overloading is through ultrasonic NDT combined with multiresolution analysis, as proposed in . This method employs ultrasonic waves (UW) processed by wavelets to detect internal cracks and crack initiation with high accuracy. The use of convolutional neural networks further enhances the crack type identification, allowing for the monitoring of crack propagation without direct access to the concrete surface. This technique is cost-effective and has demonstrated a 90% accuracy in crack detection.
Another NDT method explored is the impulse response test combined with statistical and machine-learning analysis. In this method has been shown to effectively detect local defects in concrete plates by analyzing the variability of the Frequency Response Function (FRF) derived from test data. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) helps in identifying defect-related patterns, enhancing the capability to delineate the spatial extent of defects. This approach is useful for detecting a range of defect types, including voids and honeycomb structures, providing a comprehensive solution for assessing the health of concrete structures. it is discussed the PCT method, serves as a tool for detecting defects in concrete due to overloading. PCT enhances IRT by increasing the signal-to-noise ratio of detected defects, allowing for the identification of defects with varying thicknesses and at different depths. Despite its high computational demand, PCT'92s effectiveness in defect detection under varied environmental conditions makes it a valuable asset in the toolbox of NDT techniques for concrete assessment.

1 & Ultrasonic Wave propagation  & Ex-situ & This study introduces an innovative approach for detecting and monitoring cracks in concrete structures using a combination of ultrasonic testing and deep learning through convolutional neural networks (CNNs). By employing multiresolution wavelet analysis to process ultrasonic images, the methodology allows for early detection of internal and initiation of cracks before they become visible on the surface, enhancing predictive maintenance capabilities with a reported high accuracy close to 90%.
2 & Impulse-Response Test & In-situ and Ex-situ & This study, categorized under Mechanical and Structural Damage, explores defect detection in concrete plates using impulse-response tests combined with statistical pattern recognition. Utilizing methods like Principal Component Analysis and outlier statistical tests, the research effectively identifies and ranks defects such as delamination, voids, and honeycombs in concrete structures, enhancing the precision of defect characterization compared to traditional empirical approaches.
3 & IRT & In-situ and Ex-situ & This study, focuses on the application of PCT as a post-processing technique for enhancing defect detection in concrete structures using IRT. It demonstrates how PCT can significantly improve the accuracy of NDT, particularly in areas where concrete cannot be adequately thermally exd, such as shaded regions.

Shrinkage
Shrinkage in concrete refers to the volume reduction that occurs as the concrete dries, which can lead to cracking and other structural integrity issues. Factors like the water-to-cement ratio, environmental conditions, and concrete composition influence this process. A proper design of the concrete mix and strategic placement and distribution of reinforcement is needed to address this phenomenon, which helps mitigate the effects of shrinkage. Adjustments in the mix might include selecting appropriate cement types, aggregates, and admixtures that reduce shrinkage potential. Furthermore, optimizing the amount and configuration of reinforcement can help control and evenly distribute the stresses caused by shrinkage, preventing the development of large-scale cracks.
In addition to preventive measures, detecting shrinkage in concrete after it has been cast may help maintain concrete elements and prevent cracking that could evolve into other deterioration phenomena in concrete. NDTs such as regular visual inspections, dimensional checks, and the use of strain gauges have been used to identify early signs of shrinkage.
A novel NDT method discussed in utilizes the second harmonic generation (SHG) in Rayleigh surface waves to detect microstructural changes and microcracks caused by shrinkage. This technique employs a non-contact air-coupled receiver to enhance the accuracy of measurements, avoiding inconsistencies related to coupling. The addition of a shrinkage-reducing admixture was found to significantly decrease the formation of microcracks, showcasing the SHG method's ability to evaluate the effectiveness of such admixtures in real-time and potentially in-situ scenarios.
Another approach in focuses on the analytical modeling of early-age cracking in concrete due to shrinkage using the restrained ring test. This model incorporates the effects of both restrained shrinkage and tensile creep to accurately predict the tensile stress within the concrete, validated against experimental data across multiple concrete grades. The findings underscore the importance of considering time-dependent properties like tensile creep and free shrinkage in modeling to prevent early-age cracking.

The study in  introduces an internal curing (IC) agent used in ultra-high performance concrete (UHPC) to reduce autogenous shrinkage, a common issue with high-performance concretes. The restrained ring test and large-scale concrete slab assessments using vibrating strain gauges show that the IC agent effectively delays the onset of cracking and reduces crack width, enhancing the durability of UHPC in structural applications. This method highlights the potential of IC agents in managing shrinkage-induced defects, particularly in UHPC, which is prone to significant shrinkage.
Lastly, explores the relationship between shrinkage strain and internal RH in concrete, using sensors embedded in the concrete to measure both humidity and deformation from the time of casting. The study provides insights into the stages of shrinkage and the corresponding moisture conditions, establishing a linear relationship between shrinkage strain and RH reduction. This method predicts shrinkage-induced stresses in concrete structures, helping in the design and maintenance phases to mitigate potential damage.

Together, these studies illustrate the diverse approaches and technologies in NDT that are being developed and applied to understand and control shrinkage in concrete structures. While these methods show promise in laboratory settings, their practical application in construction sites poses challenges such as the need for specialized equipment and the potential for environmental variables to affect accuracy. For instance, the feasibility of deploying sophisticated sensor systems and conducting real-time analysis with SHG or internal humidity monitoring in a typical construction environment may be limited by logistical, technical, and cost considerations. Moreover, while these NDT methods can enhance our understanding of shrinkage effects, the variability in concrete compositions and site-specific conditions could impact the reliability and generalizability of the results. These considerations are critical when evaluating the potential of these NDT methods for widespread use in field conditions.

1 & Air coupled Transducer (with Rayleigh surface waves)  & Ex-situ & textit"The non-contact, air-coupled detection method provides potential field applicability for the in situ measurements of the relative nonlinearity parameter in real structures". 
2 & Restrained ring test (strain gauges, LAB, design phase)  & Ex-situ & The first paper introduces the standard test to test shrinkage and proposes an alternative analytical model to deal with the obtained data. An experimental program with 20 different concrete mixes is used to check the validity of the new analytical model. The second deals with Ultra High-Performance Concrete used in bridge decks, prone to develop shrinkage. The use of calcined bauxite to avoid it is tested using straing gauges. 
3 & Embedded RH and Temp. sensors, external displacement sensors & Ex-situ & textit"In this study, a resistance-based digital sensor that can measure humidity and temperature at the same time was used for RH and temperature measurements (...) The deformation was measured by two linear variable differential transducers (LVDTs) mounted on the two long ends of the specimen (...) In practice, the relationship of free shrinkage strain and local RH may be used to estimate the free shrinkage field and further to calculate the shrinkage-induced stresses in structures as well."

Fire
Concrete structures exposed to fire can undergo significant physical and chemical changes depending on the intensity, duration, and nature of the fire. High temperatures can cause dehydration of the cement matrix, leading to reduced strength, microcracking, spalling, and color changes. These effects are exacerbated by longer exposure times and higher temperatures, making post-fire assessment necessary for determining the structural integrity and safety of fire-damaged concrete.

In 2021,  presented an extensive report on the topic of post-fire concrete assessment and we recommend especially the chapter 4: Existing Post-Fire Inspection Methods for Concrete Structures. We summarized here their main results:

A widely used method is the rebound hammer, which offers a quick and cost-effective means to evaluate the superficial hardness of concrete, which in turn correlates to compressive strength. However, its accuracy can be questionable in fire-damaged concrete due to the drying effect, which might falsely indicate higher strength. This tool is best used for delineating areas with significant strength loss, as its effectiveness in quantifying exact strength loss can be limited. The pullout test is another method utilized, especially valuable for its strong correlation with compressive strength. While standard procedures require calibration specific to the concrete mix, it provide a direct measure of the residual mechanical properties of fire-affected concrete. Like the rebound hammer, it has limitations, particularly in the uniform assessment of fire-damaged areas due to the heterogeneity of fire effects on concrete. UPV tests are used to assess deeper structural integrity, analyzing the velocity and attenuation of sound waves through concrete. This method is sensitive to changes in material properties induced by fire, such as cracking and voids, and can offer insights into the depth of damage by comparing velocities in damaged versus undamaged areas. Carbonation tests, involving the application of phenolphthalein to measure pH changes, are effective in determining the depth of thermal damage, as dehydroxylation of calcium hydroxide (a key component of concrete) begins at around 450'b0C, a critical threshold for strength loss. This test can indicate the extent of fire penetration and consequent strength degradation. Furthermore, more specialized techniques like seismic refraction, ground-penetrating radar (GPR), and various forms of electromagnetic testing can provide detailed assessments of surface conditions, delineating damaged zones and assessing the integrity of fire-affected concrete. These methods, while requiring specialized equipment and expertise, offer comprehensive data crucial for structural evaluations post-fire.

From the research conducted at, highlighted in reference, the UPV method has been proposed. This method assesses the thermal damage profile by measuring the velocity of sound through concrete, which decreases significantly with increased damage due to the thermal effects on the concrete's Young's modulus and moisture content. The method provides a damage profile by interpreting the travel time of ultrasonic pulses across varying distances, offering insights into the depth and severity of the damage. Additionally, simplified calorimetry using digital cameras has been explored to detect temperature-induced color changes in concrete, indicative of significant strength loss. This technique allows for a rapid visual assessment of heat-affected zones without the need for detailed spectral analysis, making it suitable for quick field assessments. Another promising approach is the measurement of drilling resistance, which effectively identifies changes in concrete hardness and integrity at different depths. This method involves drilling into the concrete and measuring the resistance encountered, which correlates with the degree of thermal damage sustained by the material.

In nonlinear ultrasonic methods were employed to detect tle fire-induced defects in concrete. These methods, such as nonlinear resonance vibration and modulation techniques, offer higher sensitivity to such defects compared to traditional linear ultrasonic methods, potentially providing a more accurate assessment of residual material properties after fire damage.

From reference a combination of NDT techniques alongside destructive testing was used to evaluate the depth of damage in reinforced concrete slabs jected to varying durations of fire exposure. Techniques like UPV and the Schmidt Rebound Hammer were utilized to assess the surface hardness and deeper structural integrity of the slabs. This comprehensive approach helps in determining the extent of repair or reinforcement needed to restore the structural integrity of fire-damaged concrete.

1 & Rebound Hammer, Pull-out test, Phenolphthalein, others & In-situ and Ex-situ & An in-depth walk-through of visual, laboratory and NDT to assess fire damage in concrete.
2 & UPV, concrete calorimetry, drilling resistance.  & Ex-situ & The paper checks the suitability of the tests to assess fire damage
3 & Nonlinear Resonance Vibration Measurement, Nonlinear Modulation Measurement   & Ex-situ & textit"To examine the sensitivity of the two nonlinear ultrasound methods in evaluating fire-damaged concrete of various mix proportions at various temperatures, their results are compared, and correlated relationships are proposed to assess residual mechanical strengths using measured non-linearity parameters."
4 & Acoustic Emission, Impact Echo, Shear wave ultrasonic tomography (UST), UPV, GPR  & In-situ and Ex-situ & This paper emphasize the use of nondestructive evaluation methods as a more efficient alternative to extensive laboratory testing for determining the extent and severity of fire damage, to develop effective repair strategies.

Freeze and Thaw
Freeze-thaw cycles can lead to significant degradation in concrete, impacting its durability and structural integrity. As water within the concrete's pores freezes and expands, it causes microcracks and scaling, making necessary the development of effective detection and evaluation methods to maintain infrastructure longevity.

In, two non-destructive approaches were used to evaluate damage from freeze-thaw cycles in concrete. Continuous monitoring with embedded sensors measured temperature, RH, and ultrasonic velocity, revealing that damage could be detected from the first cycle of freezing and thawing. This method was complemented by automated ultrasonic inspections before and after the cycles, which helped in assessing changes in dimensions, velocity, and attenuation due to freeze-thaw stress, highlighting greater degradation in non-air-entrained concrete.

In focused on the sensitivity of acoustic emission (AE) signals during freeze-thaw cycles. This study demonstrated that AE could detect internal changes in concrete'97such as minor cracks'97that traditional construction testing methods might miss. The analysis of AE signals showed a significant frequency shift towards lower values, suggesting that this method could offer a more refined detection of freeze-thaw damage.

A unique study employed a combination of force and acoustic sensors to determine the dynamic modulus of elasticity in cement-based repair materials, reflecting interfacial deterioration and material damage. Results from NDT correlated well with traditional flexural bond tests, validating the NDT approach for assessing the integrity of repaired structures after freeze-thaw exposure.

In the field of concrete repairing  used fractal analysis together with ultrasonic and relative dynamic elastic modulus tests to investigate the effects of interface roughness, old concrete age, and freeze-thaw cycles on the bond strength of new-to-old concrete interfaces. The study found that interface roughness significantly influenced bonding properties, with rougher interfaces providing better resistance to freeze-thaw damage, suggesting that both old concrete age and interface roughness should be considered in repair strategies.

In another study, non-contact ultrasonic testing was used to measure leaky Rayleigh waves propagating through concrete, developing a degradation index based on wave velocities. This system was particularly effective in the early detection of damage, as indicated by the sensitivity of the degradation index during the initial freeze-thaw cycles, showcasing its potential for early-stage damage assessment in concrete structures.

Finally, in  it is reviewed the adequacy of the ASTM C666  test method for evaluating freeze-thaw durability in pervious concrete, proposing the JC446-91 test method as an alternative. This study shows the need for more realistic test methods that better represent field conditions and emphasizes the role of mixed design parameters, like air entrainment and aggregate size, in influencing freeze-thaw durability.

The detailed information on NDT methods applied to study Freeze and Thaw in concrete is thoroughly presented in Table reftable: Freeze and Thaw.

1 & Ultrasonic Pulse Velocity, Temperature, RH  & In-situ and Ex-situ & This paper examines the effectiveness of two non-destructive evaluation methods for monitoring damage in concrete due to freeze-thaw cycles. The study integrates continuous monitoring with embedded sensors and pre- and post-cycle ultrasonic imaging to assess changes in concrete properties, offering a comprehensive approach to understanding the impact of freeze-thaw cycles on concrete durability.
2 & Acoustic Emissions (AE)  & Ex-situ & textit"The innovative contribution of the manuscript lies in the application of the methods of frequency analysis of recorded AE hits during F-T cycles. (...) in the case of air-entrained concrete, which exhibits a very low degree of damage, is it necessary to employ modern tools for the analysis of AE hit signals?"
3 & Resonant frequency test (RFT), Hammer Percussion, Modified chain drag  & Ex-situ & RFT, hammer percussion, and modified chain drag can be used interchangeably to determine the dynamic elastic modulus of repaired specimens. This property indicates the internal damage caused by freezing and thawing.
4 & UPV  & Ex-situ & textit
"The ultrasonic NDT can describe the defect situation of the bonding interface, and for the new-to-old concrete specimens with different old concrete ages and interface roughness, the relative defect degree has an exponential relationship with the loss rate of splitting tensile strength."
5 & Non-contact ultrasonic technology using Micro Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS)  & Ex-situ & textit"In the present study, an algorithm to analyze the velocities of surface waves resulting from damage in concrete, as well as degradation index, using a multi-channel non-contact leaky Rayleigh wave measurement system was proposed. The results demonstrated the ability of the algorithm to effectively identify and detect damage in concrete." 
6 &  Permeability, Porosity and Mass Loss Test  & Ex-situ & The authors study if the regulation ASTM C666  is correctly applied in previous concrete. They apply an alternative, the JC446-91 , a Chinese standard. textit"The main purpose of this study was to evaluate the freeze-thaw durability of previous concrete specimens using the test method (...) conforming to JC446-91'94. They study also other depending parameters like sand replacement, W/C ratio, air entraining agents, or the coarse Agg. size 

Carbonation
Carbonation in concrete is a natural process where carbon dioxide from the atmosphere reacts with calcium hydroxide in the concrete to form calcium carbonate. This reaction reduces the alkalinity of the concrete, which can lead to the corrosion of the reinforcing steel, thus compromising the structural integrity of reinforced concrete structures. The process can be influenced by various factors such as the permeability of the concrete, environmental conditions, and the concrete's composition. Various methods, both destructive and non-destructive, have been developed to measure the extent and rate of carbonation in concrete.

Several studies have explored different approaches to detect and evaluate carbonation in concrete. For instance,  utilized a combination of techniques including Phenolphthalein indicator, Thermogravimetric analysis, X-ray phase analysis, FTIR, and Quantitative calcium carbonate analysis to assess carbonation depth. The results indicated discrepancies in carbonation depth measurement, with some methods showing depths 2-3 times greater than those measured by the Phenolphthalein indicator, that was used as baseline. Another approach involved non-linear ultrasonic techniques, which demonstrated a significant decrease in non-linearity parameters due to the deposition of CaCO3 in voids, suggesting changes in micro-structural properties due to carbonation.

Research has also highlighted the role of pH indicators in evaluating the carbonation degree, although their effectiveness can be limited by the inability to detect partially carbonated zones. Techniques like single-sided 1H NMR have been shown to provide detailed insights into the structural and mineralogical changes caused by carbonation, offering a non-destructive alternative to traditional methods.

The influence of carbonation on concrete's mechanical properties was also examined, revealing that carbonation affects the rebound number and strength evolution of concrete, necessitating new equations to account for these changes. Furthermore, a model using non-destructive site measurements of air-permeability has been proposed to estimate the carbonation rate and assess the residual service life of structures without the need for core drilling.

Another study discussed the limitations of NDT for assessing resistance to carbonation in aged concrete, suggesting surrogate tests like air permeability and electrical resistivity as potential alternatives. Similarly, experiments on concrete slabs of various strength classes highlighted how carbonation impacts mechanical and durability properties, with correlations established between UPV, air permeability, and carbonation coefficients.

The detailed information on NDT methods applied to study Carbonation in concrete is thoroughly presented in Table reftable: Carbonation.

1 & Phenolphtalein, TGA, X-ray Phase Analysis, FTIR, Quantitative Calcium Carbonate Analysis & Ex-situ & This paper discusses the evaluation of various methods for detecting the carbonation depth in concrete, a critical factor affecting the durability and structural integrity of concrete structures. It compares the effectiveness of several NDT methods, providing insights into their accuracy and applicability, and highlighting how some methods can significantly differ in the measurement outcomes of carbonation depth.
2 & Air coupled transducer (with Rayleigh surface waves)  & Ex-situ & The authors accelerate the carbonation of specimens to track carbonation using an air-coupled transducer propagating Rayleigh surface wave signals. The paper proves the application of the method to carbonation detection.
3 & pH indicators, Image Analysis, TGA, X-ray Diffraction (XRD), FTIR, UPV  & Ex -situ & textit"(...) the authors suggest that the spectra data, such as fluorescence, X-ray, FTIR and ultrasonic signals, could be used to measure the carbonation degree quantitatively based on the diffraction intensity, which reflects the amount of CO2 diffusion."
4 & unilateral hydrogen nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR)  & Ex-situ & textitThe 1H NMR offers the possibility to determine not only the depths but also the structural and mineralogical changes as a result of carbonation. The progress of the carbonation could be measured on water-saturated samples as well as on dried samples.
5 & Rebound Hammer  & Ex-situ & textit"The influence of carbonation on the rebound number varies considerably according to the strength level, while the influence of carbonation on the whole strength evolution of concrete member is negligible regardless of the strength level."
6 & Air permeability Tests, Electrical Resistivity   & In-situ & textit"Only destructive tests are applicable which, given the very high-spatial variability encountered, become prohibitive in terms of costs and damage. The only way to assess the resistance of aged field concrete to carbonation or chloride penetration is through a surrogate test measuring variables that are linked to it. There are two standardized test methods with potential as surrogate tests, as they are fast and entirely non-destructive: the coefficient of air permeability and the electrical resistivity."
7 & Rebound Hammer, Air Permeability, Electrical resistivity, UPV   & In-situ & textit"(...) the air permeability test is a good non-destructive alternative for the UPV test"

Chloride Penetration
Chloride penetration in concrete, primarily from deicing salts and seawater exposure, is a leading cause of deterioration in reinforced concrete structures. When chloride ions reach the steel reinforcement, they disrupt the protective oxide layer, initiating corrosion that can weaken structural integrity over time. Early detection and evaluation of chloride penetration are therefore important to extend the lifespan of concrete infrastructure and prevent costly repairs.

The study described in developed a method to estimate the chloride threshold for corrosion initiation in concrete. This method involved monitoring the half-cell potential between the rebar and a reference electrode, identifying the onset of corrosion when a sudden potential drop occurred. This drop coincided with a specific chloride concentration, allowing for the estimation of the chloride threshold necessary to initiate corrosion.

The research in focused on the durability of cement mortars exposed to ammonium chloride, emphasizing the protective role of supplementary cementitious materials (SCMs). Mortar specimens made with various SCMs showed varied resistance to ammonium chloride, with ternary blends of OPC, GGBS, and silica fume offering the highest resistance, as evidenced by reduced degradation depth and less strength loss compared to other blends.

In a detailed examination of various NDTs for in-situ measurement of chloride ion concentration in concrete is conducted. The paper compares electrochemical and electromagnetic methods. The electrochemical techniques, including potentiometry and chronopotentiometry, are directly sensitive to chloride ions. These methods offer high chemical stability, ease of fabrication, and cost-effectiveness, which make them widely used. However, limitations such as the stability of the reference electrode, interference from other ions (especially hydroxide), and errors due to diffusion potentials are noted, particularly affecting long-term measurements in concrete environments. Electromagnetic techniques, which include electrical resistivity and impedance spectroscopy, provide indirect measures of potential chloride content by assessing the electrical properties of the concrete. These properties are influenced by factors like temperature, ionic composition, and moisture, making the techniques robust and simple to use but not specifically selective to chloride ions, which limits their direct applicability for measuring chloride concentrations. The study also explores more sophisticated electromagnetic methods such as laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS) and NMR, which, despite their high accuracy and non-invasive nature, come with challenges of portability and complex operational requirements. These advanced techniques are better suited for detailed laboratory analyses rather than widespread field application due to their elaborate setup and the need for specialized training. The paper shows the importance of choosing the right technique based on specific requirements such as cost, ease of use, long-term stability, and accuracy. It suggests that while no single technique may cover all aspects perfectly, a combination of methods could be strategically employed depending on the concrete structure's specific monitoring needs and the environmental conditions it faces. 

In, the paper explores the use of GPR to characterize different phases of chloride contamination, active corrosion, and cracks or delamination in reinforced concrete structures. This method was evaluated through field works on two 30-year-old reinforced concrete slabs exposed to abrasive tidal seawater and in laboratory conditions with specimens jected to accelerated corrosion for 94 days. The research demonstrates how GPR can image and model the deterioration of concrete. By identifying specific signal amplitudes, the study establishes that low amplitudes typically indicate chloride contamination, while higher amplitudes suggest phases like delamination or cracks, which are more severe forms of deterioration. This correlation between signal amplitude and structural health allows for the development of a non-invasive diagnostic tool that can quickly assess the integrity of concrete structures without physical sampling. The results are validated by continuous and temporal measurements that map the spatial amplitude distribution, confirming the GPR'92s ability to detect and differentiate between healthy and compromised areas within the concrete. This capability is critical for prioritizing maintenance and repair actions, particularly in structures exposed to harsh environments where chloride-induced corrosion is a major concern.

Finally, explored the use of electromagnetic spectroscopy to detect chloride levels non-destructively in concrete at various depths. The study successfully developed a prediction model that correlated electromagnetic signal changes at different chloride concentrations, demonstrating the technique's potential for early detection of chloride penetration in concrete structures.

The detailed information on NDT methods applied to study Chloride Penetration in concrete is thoroughly presented in Table reftable: Chloride Penetration.
1 & HCP & Ex-situ & This study focuses on developing a method to estimate the chloride threshold value for corrosion initiation in RC structures. Using a targeted application of chlorides and continuous monitoring of HCP, the research identifies a critical point at which a sudden potential drop indicates the onset of rebar corrosion. The study determines the threshold levels necessary for corrosion initiation, providing valuable data for the durability design of concrete structures.
2 & Phenolphtalein, UPV, Photometry  & Ex-situ & Mortar.  The specimens in the study consider partial replacements with SCM. and the NDT was complemented with Compressive Strength test.
3 & Potentiometric measurement, Chronopotentiometric measurement, Electrical resistivity, impedance analysis, Fiber optic sensor, and others & In-situ and Ex-situ & A Review on in situ and laboratory tests to assess chloride ingress in concrete
4 & Grond Penetrating Radar & In-situ & textit"Surface longitudinal crack width has a crucial effect on the reflected signals, and this observation supports the proposed explanation that the presence of rust and surface cracks leads to a significant increase in the reflection amplitudes of corroded steel bars. Therefore, reflection amplitude is a suitable corrosion phase indicator for corrosion assessment in RC." 
5 & Electromagnetic propagation (EM),  & Ex-situ & The EM and chlorometer data are used to build a prediction model, with a R2=0.999. textit"In summary, the results of the present study proved the ability of the EM sensor to detect the chloride content across the investigated concrete bodies with an error margin of 0.034% concerning the calorimeter." 

Corrosion
The corrosion of steel reinforcement within concrete is a significant deterioration phenomenon that compromises the integrity and longevity of reinforced concrete structures. This corrosion typically occurs when the protective alkaline environment of the concrete is compromised, allowing the embedded steel to react with oxygen and moisture. Factors that can precipitate this include carbonation of the concrete, where carbon dioxide from the air reduces the pH, or the presence of chlorides, which can penetrate the concrete and directly initiate corrosion. Once initiated, the corrosion process leads to the formation of iron oxides and hydroxides, which occupy a greater volume than the original steel. This volumetric expansion generates internal stresses, leading to cracking, spalling, and delamination of the surrounding concrete. These manifestations not only weaken the structural capacity of the concrete but also accelerate the rate of deterioration in a feedback loop that can lead to premature failure of the structure if not properly managed or mitigated.
One of the most used NDTs is the HCP.

In extends the analysis of corrosion integrating concrete electrical resistivity measurements to better understand and monitor corrosion rates in concrete structures. It highlights the strong correlation between increased electrical resistivity and reduced corrosion rates, suggesting that resistivity could serve as a controlling factor in managing corrosion in active corrosion conditions. However, the paper also underscores the complexity of these relationships, noting that in saturated environments, where resistivity is low but oxygen is scarce, corrosion rates may not align with resistivity values. Early detection through NDT methods, especially acoustic emission (AE), can significantly mitigate the damage by detecting the location and extent of corrosion early, thereby reducing repair costs.

 emphasizes AE's superior real-time detection capabilities over other NDT methods, making it highly effective in early-stage corrosion monitoring and potential crack initiation detection, suggesting that AE might be the future of efficient corrosion detection in RC structures.
Following the AE technique, IRT emerges as another valuable NDT method, particularly suited for outdoor applications such as bridges and dams.

 showcases its potential in detecting defects in concrete structures under varying environmental conditions, emphasizing the necessity for controlled conditions to optimize defect detection. While effective in identifying larger defects, IRT's limitations include its inability to determine the size and depth of defects precisely, highlighting areas for future research to improve its accuracy and application scope.

Building on the established utility of IRT and AE methods,  introduces the Ultrasonic Guided Wave Leakage (UGWL) method as a promising advancement in corrosion detection for RC structures. The UGWL method not only detects corrosion earlier than the traditional HCP method but also correlates closely with chloride content, offering earlier detection capabilities. Highlighted by this study, the UGWL method's sensitivity to significant changes in the condition of rebar and the rebar-concrete interface marks it as potentially more reliable, particularly in environments with high chloride exposure, underlining its capability to improve early-stage corrosion monitoring in RC structures. Additionally, in the previous comment , they present a post-process technique called Principal Component Thermography to analyze IRT results. This technique, by analyzing a sequence of thermograms, improves defect detection within concrete structures, particularly by increasing the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of detected defects. The effectiveness of PCT is shown across various concrete types and defect depths, indicating its versatility and precision in identifying structural weaknesses. However, the method demands stantial computational power due to the intense processing required, and careful interpretation of the results is necessary to mitigate the effects of reflections and noise. 

Another NDT method that can complement the previously discussed techniques is electrical resistivity (ER), explored in  for its utility in detecting chloride-induced deterioration in reinforced concrete structures. The study highlights ER's effectiveness in correlating with critical parameters such as water saturation, chloride penetration, and corrosion rate, showing its potential in the early detection and ongoing monitoring of corrosion. However, the paper also notes variability in ER readings influenced by environmental and material factors, showing its limitations and the need to integrate it with other NDT methods for a comprehensive assessment of concrete durability.

One example of different NDT integration is done in , where the authors propose the fusion of various NDT methods. By integrating measurements from ground-penetrating radar (GPR), ER, and UPV, this study effectively uses data fusion techniques like the Response Surface Method (RSM) and artificial neural networks (ANNs) to improve the accuracy in predicting concrete properties such as strength and water content. Particularly, ANNs demonstrate superior predictive capabilities over RSM, showcasing how the combined use of multiple NDT measurements can address the limitations of single-method evaluations in concrete assessment. Although this data fusion is not used properly for durability assessment, the combination of NDTs and the use of Machine Learning methods can be fast and easily transported to the focus of this report.


Laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy (LIBS) emerges as a complementary NDT method.  demonstrate the method's efficacy in identifying the accumulation of corrosion products such as iron, chromium, and manganese on concrete surfaces, which are critical indicators of structural degradation. Additionally, LIBS allows for the high-resolution measurement of chloride distribution within the concrete matrix, offering detailed visual representations and quantitative analysis. This precision helps to assess the depth of chloride penetration, a major factor in corrosion processes. The ability of LIBS to perform extensive measurements shows its potential as a robust tool in corrosion, particularly in settings where other methods may falter due to environmental or material complexities.

In the application of 956 -CT offers both qualitative and quantitative insights by providing high-resolution tomographic images that allow for a detailed examination of concrete's porosity, structural integrity, and potential defects. The analysis underscores the importance of adjusting scanning parameters to optimize image quality and resolution, which are crucial for accurate diagnosis and evaluation of concrete health. However, it also cautions that higher resolution does not automatically equate to more useful data, as seen in the various scans that showed how changes in parameters can affect the clarity and utility of the resulting images. Therefore, careful selection and interpretation of u956 -CT data is necessary to ensure the understanding of concrete conditions, particularly when assessing for tle changes like early-stage corrosion.

The detailed information on NDT methods applied to study corrosion in concrete is thoroughly presented in Table reftable: Corrosion. 

1 & HCP  & In-situ and Ex-situ & This paper explores the predictive capabilities of electrical resistivity in assessing the extent of corrosion in concrete structures. Reviewing various studies, it highlights the relationship between electrical resistivity and corrosion rate, examining factors such as curing conditions, rebar diameter, and cover depth. The combination of the Wenner four-point concrete resistivity method with HCP measurements provides a comprehensive approach to the early detection and management of corrosion in reinforced concrete.
2 & Acoustic Emission  & In-situ and Ex-situ & This review highlights the application of the Acoustic Emission (AE) technique in NDT for monitoring corrosion in reinforced concrete structures. It underscores AE's effectiveness in early-stage corrosion detection, providing significant advantages in terms of real-time monitoring capabilities compared to other NDT methods, thus enhancing preventive maintenance strategies and reducing rehabilitation costs.
3 & IRT  & In-situ & This paper is categorized under Mechanical and Structural Damage, focusing on the use of IRT as an NDT method to detect defects in concrete structures such as bridges. It emphasizes the practical application of this technology in the field to improve maintenance strategies for civil engineering infrastructure.
4 & UGWL  & In-situ and Ex-situ & This article evaluates the efficacy of UGWL method compared to the traditional HCP method for detecting corrosion in reinforced concrete bridge decks. It highlights the UGWL method's ability to detect corrosion-related changes earlier than the HCP method and establishes a correlation between UGWL data and chloride content in concrete.
5 & Electrical Resistivity, specifically TEM  & In-situ and Ex-situ & This review focuses on the use of electrical resistivity as a NDT method to assess chloride-induced deterioration in reinforced concrete. It highlights the method's sensitivity to various factors, not just electrochemical corrosion processes, showing the need for understanding these influences to enhance the technique's application in real-world scenarios.
6 & - GPR, Electrical Resistivity, UPV  & In-situ and Ex-situ & This study focuses on evaluating concrete properties through the statistical fusion of multiple NDT techniques to assess the corrosion state. It demonstrates the integration of GPR, electrical resistivity, and UPV to enhance the accuracy of predicting, among other properties, water content, utilizing advanced data fusion methods like Response Surface Method and Artificial Neural Networks.
7 & Laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy  & In-situ &  The 3 studies explore the use of LIBS for detecting corrosion in RC structures, each addressing different aspects of the technology's application. The first study focuses on the use of LIBS for in-situ analysis of aging and corrosion, specifically targeting the detection of corrosion indicators such as iron, manganese, and chromium on exposed concrete surfaces. The second and third studies investigate LIBS's effectiveness in identifying corrosion products within the inner surfaces of hollow concrete structures by creating samples with artificially induced electron corrosion. This approach allows the study to assess LIBS'92s capability in real-world scenarios, thereby enhancing corrosion monitoring and maintenance strategies for infrastructure.
8 &  m-CT &  & Ex-situ & This study falls under the Mechanical and Structural Damage category, specifically focusing on the micro-structure analysis of concrete. Utilizing high-resolution m-CT, this paper provides insights into the internal composition and porosity of concrete, enhancing understanding of its structural characteristics and potential areas of weakness.

Alkali-Aggregate Reaction
Alkali-aggregate reaction (AAR) represents a durability issue for concrete structures, potentially leading to serious structural damage over time. AAR involves chemical reactions between alkaline cement pastes and reactive aggregates within the concrete, resulting in expansive reaction products that cause internal stress and cracking. This process can be categorized into two main types: Alkali-Silica Reaction (ASR) and Alkali-Carbonation Reaction (ACR). ASR typically occurs when silica found in aggregates reacts with alkaline components of cement, forming a gel that swells by absorbing moisture from the surrounding cement paste. ACR, on the other hand, involves the reaction of alkalies with certain carbonate rocks, leading to similar expansive phenomena.

The first study, focuses on utilizing acoustic emission techniques to detect early signs of ASR in concrete. This method allowed for the detection of ASR-induced damage on the first day of testing, significantly earlier than traditional methods that measure changes in the physical dimensions of specimens. The sensitivity of the acoustic emission method provides a non-destructive means to track the progression of internal damage and to distinguish between tensile and shear cracks, which are determinants for assessing the severity and nature of ASR.

 examines various laboratory setups to simulate field conditions for studying ASR. The findings highlight the limitations of current accelerated tests in replicating the swelling behavior observed in real structures, indicating a need for refined methodologies to better predict the long-term performance and structural implications of AAR-affected concrete.

In , the impact of confinement on ASR-induced damage is explored. The study reveals that confinement alters the expansion characteristics and damage patterns of concrete, with reactive fine aggregates showing more pronounced effects. This research underscores the influence of mechanical constraints on the deterioration processes initiated by ASR, providing insights into the anisotropic nature of damage in reinforced concrete.

The investigation in introduces the use of Spectral Induced Polarization (SIP) as a promising non-destructive approach to detect early ASR activity by monitoring changes in the electrical properties of concrete. This technique offers a potential advancement in the early diagnosis of ASR by identifying shifts in chargeability and phase lag, which correlate with the development of ASR products.

A detailed examination of AAR testing methodologies is done in  specifically focusing on Alkali-Silica Reaction (ASR). These methods, such as the Accelerated Mortar-Bar Test (AMBT) and Concrete Prism Tests (CPTs) are significant because they provide a means to quickly identify reactive aggregates and thus prevent potential damage early in the construction process. The petrographic examination, another critical step in the testing regime, allows for microscopic analysis of aggregates, providing a more granular understanding of their composition and reactivity. The discussion on specific tests, like the AMBT and CPT, highlights the evolution of these methodologies over the years and their adoption across different standards globally. This reflects an ongoing effort to refine and standardize AAR testing to ensure reliability and applicability across varied geographic and climatic conditions. 

 presents a comprehensive study on ASR and its impact on concrete durability, focusing on the interdisciplinary research conducted by the German Federal Institute for Materials Research and Testing (BAM) over the past 20 years. The study examines ASR from micro- to macro-levels, introducing methods for assessing ASR risks and the development of testing methodologies for existing concrete pavements, utilizing a variety of non-destructive techniques. The research emphasizes the importance of combining different scales of analysis and the benefits of innovative, NDT such as radar and NMR for in-situ moisture measurements. The detailed microscopic analysis reveals the microscopic mechanisms of ASR, where OM, SEM, and other spectroscopic methods are employed to analyze the microstructure and reaction products. The study highlights the presence of amorphous ASR gels and semi-crystalline reaction products, which are crucial in understanding the deterioration processes in concrete. Furthermore, the study discusses various laboratory methods used to simulate and analyze the deterioration processes, including the use of accelerated testing methodologies to evaluate the reactivity of aggregates and the long-term durability of concrete against ASR. The combined use of these advanced testing techniques allows for a more accurate assessment of concrete's durability and the effectiveness of preventive measures against ASR.

The details concerning the NDT methods applied to study AAR in concrete are presented in Table reftable: Alkali-Aggregate Reaction. This table encapsulates selected publications, outlining the specific NDT methods utilized, references, the context of their application (in-situ or ex-situ), and relevant comments summarizing the findings and methodologies of each study. 

1 & Acoustic Emission & Ex-situ & textit"The results of the tests indicate that the acoustic emission method is suitable for detection of cracks caused by aggregate reactivity."
2 & Nonlinear Impact Resonance Acoustic Spectroscopy (NIRAS)  & Ex-situ & textit"The NIRAS test has been found effective to understand and detect damage up to moderate levels (0.12%); yet, this non-destructive procedure was not able to appraise damage at high and very high induced expansion and distress levels, which might have been related with the present of AAR-reaction products"
3 & Stiffness Damage Test (SDT), Damaging Rating Index (micro)  & Ex-situ & textit"The multi-level protocol (i.e., coupling of Stiffness Damage Test- SDT and the Damage Rating Index- DRI) is a reliable and complementary approach for the condition assessment of unconfined/confined concrete affected by ASR."
4 & Spectral induced polarization (SIP), Electrical impedance spectroscopy (EIS)  & Ex-situ & textit"Our results suggest that the SIP measurements have the potential to be an effective non-destructive method to characterize and to discriminate ASR-affected from non-affected concrete structures based on their electrical responses."
5 & SDT, Micro-Indentation, SEM, Energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS)  & Ex -situ & The Thesis presents a broad use of microscopic and macroscopic tests to assess the ASR damage in concrete.
6 & SEM, Raman Spectroscopy, 3D-CT, Micro-XRF, LIBS, NMR, AMBT   & Ex-situ and In-situ & The paper uses a broad variation of NDTs to characterize the effect of internal hydrophobization as a novel ASR avoidance strategy for concrete road pavement.

Sulphate Attack
Sulphate attack is a significant form of degradation that affects concrete structures, particularly those exposed to environments containing sulphate compounds. This reaction occurs when sulfate ions from external sources (ESA), such as soil, groundwater, or seawater, penetrate concrete and react with the constituents of the cement paste. The primary outcomes of this interaction are the formation of secondary minerals like ettringite and gypsum, which can lead to expansion, cracking, and ultimately the loss of structural integrity. The susceptibility of concrete to sulfate attack depends on several factors including the type of cement, the presence of supplementary cementitious materials, the quality of concrete mixing and curing, and the environmental conditions.

Sulfate attack on concrete can also originate from the aggregates used in the concrete mix, especially if the aggregates contain sulfates or other soluble salts: that is called Internal Sulfate Attack (ISA). When such aggregates are used, the sulfates may leach out over time and react with the cement paste, leading to the formation of expansive minerals like ettringite, which causes deterioration and cracking.

In  extensively reviews the phenomena of ESA on cementitious materials, discussing the challenges in simulating real-world deterioration through laboratory methods. It highlights the disparities between field and laboratory conditions, noting that most standardized tests fail to accurately predict real-life durability due to accelerated testing conditions that do not mimic nature. The critical review offered in this paper focuses on both the standardized and non-standardized testing methods, emphasizing their strengths and weaknesses. Standard methods often rely on accelerated conditions such as high sulfate concentrations and temperatures that are uncharacteristic of typical environmental exposures. These methods tend to induce changes in the degradation mechanisms, notably the preferential formation of gypsum at elevated sulfate levels, which diverges from the ettringite formation typically observed under field conditions.

One significant aspect of the review is its focus on  NDT methods, which are highlighted as crucial for assessing the in-situ health of concrete structures without causing damage. The paper discusses the potential of NDT techniques to provide more accurate diagnostics of sulfate penetration and damage before visible signs of deterioration occur. These methods include UPV, electromagnetic techniques, and other scanning methods that can detect changes in the internal structure of concrete that are indicative of sulfate attack. The paper also delves into the evaluation of various national and international standards used in the testing of concrete for sulfate resistance, (ASTM C 452-15, ASTM C1012, USBR 4908,  SN 505262-1, CAN/CSA-A3004-13, GB/T 749-2008, EN 206). It underscores the necessity for these standards to evolve to incorporate realistic environmental conditions that better mimic field exposures. The review calls for an overhaul of existing standards to include lower sulfate concentrations, variable temperature settings, and longer-term exposure periods to better predict the long-term durability of concrete under sulfate attack. In response to these issues, the authors recommend developing more representative accelerated tests or adjusting existing methods. They suggest incorporating variable environmental conditions that more closely mimic those found in the field, such as fluctuating temperatures and varying humidity levels, to understand the complex interactions that lead to sulfate attack.
In the evaluation of concrete deterioration under sulfate attack, a combination of advanced NDT methods provides comprehensive insights into the damage mechanisms and structural integrity.

One study  utilizes UT and X-CT to assess the non-uniform deterioration behavior of concrete under sulfate attack, revealing that while UT can assess overall concrete integrity, its effectiveness is limited by concrete's heterogeneous nature. The integration with X-CT allows for detailed visualization of internal defects, porosity, and material distribution, enhancing the ability to localize and quantify defects.

The refinement in NDT techniques continues with the exploration of meso-structural changes through NMR, which highlights the evolution of pore structures during sulfate exposure. NMR provides a detailed analysis of pore size distribution and porosity, that allows an understanding of the progression of damage at a micro-level. This method's sensitivity to changes in the concrete's microstructure complements the macroscopic observations from UT and X-CT, offering a holistic view of sulfate attack progression.

Further integrating electrical resistivity into the study of sulfate penetration in concrete , this approach uses the Einstein relation to correlate diffusion coefficients with electrical resistivity, refining durability models such. This integration illustrates the potential of electrical resistivity as a non-destructive parameter that enhances the prediction accuracy of sulfate ingress and the resultant concrete deterioration.
The impact of aggregate quality on concrete durability is scrutinized in another study where sulfate- and sulfide-bearing sands contribute to delayed ettringite formation (DEF). Here, acoustic nonlinearity and dynamic elastic modulus measurements reveal the microscale damage and changes in mechanical properties due to high-temperature curing cycles. This approach underscores the importance of aggregate selection in the concrete formulation and highlights the potential of acoustic nonlinearity measurements in pre-construction quality control.

Lastly, the effect of ISA induced by pyrite-containing aggregates is detailed. In this scenario, the use of sulfate-resistant Portland cement and the monitoring of changes in physical properties like length, mass variation, and electrical resistivity underscore the complexity of ISA. These findings emphasize the early stages of sulfate attack, where changes in water absorption and resistivity provide early indicators of deterioration, vital for timely mitigation strategies.

The detailed information regarding the NDT methods applied to study sulfate attack on concrete is comprehensively presented in Table refSulfate Attack. This table includes a selection of relevant publications, listing the specific NDT methods used, references, the context of their application (in-situ or ex-situ), and pertinent comments summarizing the findings and methodologies of each study. This structured compilation provides an insightful overview of current research approaches and outcomes in assessing sulfate attacks on concrete.


1 & Mass Loss, expansion measurement  & Ex-situ and Ex-situ & An extensive critical review of the methods to assess External Sulfate Attack (ESA) used in the regulations and experimental research.
2 & X-CT  & Ex-situ & textit"Ultrasonic testing can judge the overall performance of concrete, but it cannot quantitatively analyze the local defects of concrete. By combining X-CT scanning and 3D image visualization technology, we can accurately determine the local defect areas and the degree of attack of concrete jected to sulfate attack"
3 & Mass Loss, SEM  & In-situ and Ex-situ & The pore structures are the variables to be studied to understand ESA, and therefore SEM is used.
4 & Electrical Resistivity  & Ex-situ & textit"The adaptation of Andrade's model for the assessment of sulfate attack was satisfactory, resulting in average errors of approximately 8.7%. These results show a possibility of using electrical resistivity as a parameter of concrete durability, being closely linked to the ionic movement in the concrete."
5 & NIRAS, EDS, expansion measurement  & Ex-situ & textit"Results from expansion, microstructural characterization using variable-pressure SEM (VP-SEM) with EDS microanalysis, nonlinear acoustic measurements, and dynamic elastic modulus measurements are combined to investigate the role of sulfate- and sulfide-bearing sand (acidic sand) in mortars exposed to an early-age high-temperature curing and sequent moist environment."
6 & Water Absorption, Electrical Resistivity  & Ex-situ & The study uses Water Absorption test to assess Internal Sulfate Attack (ISA)

Leaching
Leaching in concrete involves the removal of soluble materials, primarily calcium hydroxide, due to prolonged exposure to water. This process increases porosity, reduces mechanical strength, and degrades the overall integrity of the concrete. We selected two studies that employ different approaches: The first study is a case study assessing the effects of leaching, while the second focuses on the leaching process in fresh concrete.

 focuses on examining the leaching effects on the backfill concrete of the Itaipu Binacional Hydroelectric Powerhouse foundations after 40 years of exposure to river water. The study utilized advanced testing techniques, including X-ray diffraction, thermogravimetry, and SEM, to analyze core samples from various depths of the dam. Additionally, a long-term chemical analysis of infiltration water was performed. These methods helped in assessing the chemical and mineralogical changes within the concrete, pinpointing areas of significant leaching and degradation. The methods applied in this study'97particularly the use of SEM for microstructural analysis and X-ray diffraction for mineralogical studies'97were effective in identifying the localized effects of leaching. These techniques confirmed the presence of increased porosity and the breakdown of calcium hydroxide into more soluble forms. The findings suggest that leaching primarily affected areas with high water percolation, indicated by altered physical and chemical properties of the concrete in these regions. The detailed analysis provides valuable insights into managing aging infrastructure exposed to similar environmental conditions. By understanding the specific conditions under which leaching intensifies, maintenance efforts can be better directed to mitigate further degradation. The study's methods and findings are applicable in planning repairs and enhancements to prolong the lifespan of such critical structures, emphasizing targeted interventions in vulnerable areas.

 presents a comprehensive study on the leaching behavior of fresh concrete, which is not commonly evaluated as standard tests typically focus on hardened concrete. The investigation compares the leaching of various metals'97Barium (Ba), Chromium (Cr), Copper (Cu), Lead (Pb), and Vanadium (V)'97from fresh concrete to that from hardened concrete using standardized tests like the European dynamic surface leaching test (DSLT). Unlike standard tests which are applied to hardened, monolithic concrete specimens, this study develops a tank test for fresh concrete. This method involves directly applying water to fresh concrete surfaces to assess the immediate leaching potential, acknowledging that concrete may interact with water during construction before it fully hardens. The results from the fresh concrete leaching tests are also juxtaposed with those from DSLT applied to hardened concrete. It was found that leaching from fresh concrete is generally higher for Ba, Cr, Cu, and V, likely due to higher diffusion rates and the presence of more soluble stances before the concrete hardens fully. Interestingly, Pb showed higher leaching levels from hardened concrete, which might be attributed to its chemical interactions within the hardened matrix. The study introduces a critical evaluation of leaching tests applied to fresh concrete, which is a significant addition given the limited data available on this aspect of environmental impact assessment. The methods developed provide a more realistic simulation of environmental exposure conditions that concrete might face immediately post-construction. The findings suggest that standard leaching tests, which only consider hardened concrete, might underestimate the potential release of contaminants from fresh concrete exposed to water. This has significant implications for environmental assessments of construction projects, particularly those involving underwater installations or where concrete is exposed to water shortly after placement. Given that the leaching from fresh concrete can exceed that from hardened concrete for several key environmental contaminants, there may be a need to revise regulatory frameworks to include assessments of fresh concrete, especially for sensitive environmental applications.



1 & SEM, XRD, TGA, derivative thermogravimetric (DTG) & In-situ & Several NDT methods are complementary used to asses the leaching of the concrete of a 40-years old damm
2 & Tank Test  & Ex-situ & textit"To test leaching during the construction phase, a tank test for fresh concrete was developed."

Ammonium Nitrate Attack
Ammonium nitrate attack on concrete is a deterioration mechanism that occurs primarily in environments where concrete is exposed to fertilizers containing ammonium nitrate, such as in agricultural settings or industrial areas dealing with chemical fertilizers. This chemical attack begins when ammonium nitrate (NH4NO3) reacts with the calcium hydroxide (Ca(OH)2) naturally present in the concrete. The reaction produces calcium nitrate (Ca(NO3)2), which is highly soluble in water, and ammonia, both of which contribute to increased porosity and permeability in the concrete. As a result, the concrete's structural integrity is compromised, leading to issues such as reduced strength, increased susceptibility to further chemical attacks, and accelerated corrosion of embedded steel reinforcement. These effects are exacerbated in structures jected to cycles of wetting and drying, which can accelerate the penetration and reaction rates of ammonium nitrate. In marine environments, ammonium nitrate attack on concrete is generally less of a concern compared to other chemical attacks like chloride and sulfate penetration, which are more prevalent due to the presence of seawater. However, in specific scenarios where ammonium nitrate is present, such as near ports or coastal industrial facilities where fertilizers might be handled or stored, the risk of ammonium nitrate attack could increase. In these cases, the interaction between ammonium nitrate and concrete can lead to similar deterioration processes as observed in agricultural or industrial settings, compromising the durability and integrity of marine concrete structures. Additionally, the combination of ammonium nitrate attack with the aggressive marine environment could accelerate concrete degradation, making it a notable concern for infrastructure maintenance and longevity in such areas.

The paper explores the effects of ammonium nitrate on silica fume (SF) composite concrete. The research utilized NDTs, such as rebound hammer and UPV, to determine concrete's structural integrity after exposure to NH4NO3. These NDTs provided insights into the altered mechanical properties due to chemical exposure, suggesting that 8% silica fume content offered the best resistance against NH4NO3 attacks. Accelerated tests involving cycles of wetting and drying helped simulate long-term environmental impacts, showing a noticeable decline in strength as cycles progressed.

Paper  studies the impact of nano-SiO2 and nano-Al2O3 additives on concrete exposed to dry-wet cycles and nitrate erosion, typical of marine environments. The study used similar NDTs to evaluate concrete durability changes, finding that nano-concretes showed enhanced performance. Relative dynamic elastic moduli of nano-concretes were higher, indicating better durability and lower NO3 content at various depths compared to plain concrete. The study underscores nano-particles' role in optimizing pore structure and increasing resistance to chemical attacks. 

Both papers suggest that their findings apply to in-situ construction concrete, particularly in environments prone to chemical exposures such as industrial or marine settings. The methods employed NDT methods that are effective for monitoring ongoing structural integrity and can be readily applied in the field to evaluate the condition of in-situ concrete without compromising its function: rebound hammer and UPV tests provide quick and effective means to assess concrete health without damaging the structure, being, for this reason, appliable for ongoing durability assessments in constructions like bridges, dams, or industrial flooring.
In the context of marine or industrial settings: the enhancements provided by silica fume and nano-particles can be particularly beneficial. These additives not only improve mechanical strength and durability but also reduce permeability and increase resistance to aggressive chemical environments. Long-term durability can be significantly improved by carefully selecting concrete additives that respond well to the specific chemical threats present in the environment.


1 & X-ray Diffraction (XRD) & In-situ & textit"In this research work, an experimental approach was used to investigate the harmful acidic effects of fertilizer especially ammonium nitrate on the appearance, structural composition, pore structure, and durability "
2 & SEM, EDS  & In-situ and Ex-situ & To improve the durability of the concrete on harbor-wharf under dry-wet cycles and nitrate erosion, the effect of the addition of nano-particles must be studied. The NDTs used are SEM and EDS