Steel/Metal
Steel and other metals are indispensable materials in building construction, renowned for their strength, durability, and versatility. These materials form the backbone of modern infrastructure, from the skeletal frameworks of skyscrapers and bridges to the protective cladding of buildings and the intricate components of machinery. The choice of metal in construction depends on the specific requirements of the project, including considerations of load-bearing capacity, resistance to environmental stressors, and longevity.

Metals like steel offer high tensile strength and excellent ductility, which makes them ideal for areas prone to seismic activity or heavy industrial use. Aluminum, known for its light weight and resistance to corrosion, is frequently used in facades and roofing. Copper and its alloys, such as bronze and brass, are preferred for decorative elements and fixtures due to their natural antimicrobial properties and aesthetic appeal.

The use of metals in construction not only supports structural integrity but also contributes to aesthetic designs, providing a modern look that can withstand the test of time. Despite their robust nature, metals require effective maintenance strategies to combat various forms of deterioration that can compromise their structural integrity and aesthetic value over time. Understanding these deterioration mechanisms is crucial for the long-term preservation and functionality of metal structures in the built environment.

Deterioration Mechanisms of Steel/Metal
Steel and other metals used in building construction are susceptible to a variety of deterioration mechanisms that can significantly affect their structural integrity and longevity. These mechanisms are generally categorized into chemical, electrochemical, and mechanical forms of deterioration, each influenced by different environmental factors, the presence of corrosive agents, and the physical and chemical properties of the metal itself. Understanding these mechanisms is essential for the effective maintenance and preservation of metal structures.
     Chemical Deterioration: This involves the direct reaction of metal with environmental agents without electrical activity. Examples include general corrosion, where metal uniformly loses material due to reactions with atmospheric oxygen forming metal oxides, and high-temperature oxidation that occurs in environments of elevated temperatures causing scaling and weakening of the metal.

     Electrochemical Deterioration: This type of deterioration involves electrochemical reactions where electrons transfer between different substances. It includes phenomena like galvanic corrosion, which occurs when two dissimilar metals are in electrical contact in a corrosive electrolytic environment, and pitting corrosion, which leads to the formation of small, localized pits on the metal surface, potentially causing severe damage.

     Mechanical Deterioration: Mechanical forces can cause deterioration in metals through repeated stress or direct physical wear. Fatigue from repeated stress cycles can initiate and propagate cracks leading to failure, wear from frictional contact with harder materials can lead to material loss, and hydrogen embrittlement can make metals brittle and prone to cracking under stress.

Each of these categories encompasses specific types of damage that can occur under different conditions, making it crucial for engineers and maintenance teams to implement tailored protective measures and monitoring strategies to extend the life of metal structures and components.

Chemical Deterioration
Chemical deterioration of metals and steel, particularly through general corrosion and high-temperature oxidation, presents significant challenges in maintaining structural integrity and material performance. General corrosion involves a uniform material loss across a large area, while high-temperature oxidation accelerates corrosion under heat exposure, leading to scaling and weakening of metal.  NDT methods are crucial for detecting, analyzing, and managing these types of deterioration without further damaging the material.

General Corrosion: Uniform loss of material over a large surface area due to chemical reactions with atmospheric oxygen, leading to the formation of metal oxides.

High-Temperature Oxidation: Accelerated corrosion at elevated temperatures, often relevant in metal components exposed to high heat, leading to scaling and a significant loss of material strength.


Pulsed Eddy Current (PEC) techniques have been effective in identifying microstructural changes and assessing the extent of thermal and corrosion effects on metals ziouche_pulsed_2017. Similarly, Ultrasonic Thickness Measurement is widely used for in-situ evaluation of metal loss due to corrosion, providing a reliable measure of material thickness and integrity srivas_analysis_2015, sahu_review_2016.

IRT, particularly through numerical simulations and active methods, has proven invaluable in detecting internal corrosion within pipelines and hidden corrosion in metallic structures, optimizing the detection processes to be more cost-effective and less labor-intensive jun-ya_numerical_2012, simonov_infrared_2020.

Active Microwave Thermography has been utilized to characterize the condition of reinforced steel bars, detecting corrosion underneath the surface and providing rapid assessments that can guide maintenance decisions foudazi_characterization_2015.

GPR offers another approach by evaluating the amplitude decay and signal intensity from reinforced concrete, which helps in understanding the severity and spread of corrosion sossa_lab_2019.

The integration of Microwave NDT and Thermography enhances the detection capabilities for corrosion, particularly in reinforcing steel bars, although it may increase the duration of scans pieper_integration_2014.

Optical Techniques are particularly beneficial for assessing surface conditions in industrial boilers, helping to manage risks associated with fire-side corrosion when burning low-quality biofuels hardy_non-destructive_2021.

Each of these NDT methods plays a pivotal role in managing the chemical deterioration of metals, providing essential data that helps in the proactive maintenance and preservation of metal structures under corrosive conditions. This array of technologies ensures that despite the challenges of corrosion and high-temperature oxidation, effective measures can be implemented to extend the life and functionality of metallic elements in various engineering applications.

See Table ref{table: metal_chemical for detailed descriptions and citations related to each NDT method and their applications in detecting and managing general corrosion and high-temperature oxidation in metals.


1 & Pulsed Eddy Current (PEC) & ziouche_pulsed_2017 & Not specified & The study successfully used PEC to detect microstructural changes due to thermal and corrosion effects. The method proved effective in identifying modifications that impact mechanical properties. No specific mention of costs. 
2 & Ultrasonic Thickness Measurement & srivas_analysis_2015 & In-situ & This study effectively utilized ultrasonic thickness measurement to evaluate corrosion-related metal loss and predict the remaining life of corroded metal plates. The method provided accurate and reliable measurements without damaging the material.
3 & IRT & jun-ya_numerical_2012 & Ex-situ & The study used numerical simulation to optimize IRT for detecting internal corrosion in pipelines, analyzing flaw detectability and the impact of various conditions on detection efficacy. The approach proved cost-effective by reducing the need for extensive physical testing.
4 & Active Microwave Thermography & foudazi_characterization_2015 & In-situ & The study employed active microwave thermography to assess corrosion in reinforced steel bars, showcasing its efficacy in identifying degradation even in complex structures. This method offers a rapid assessment tool, potentially reducing inspection time and costs.
5 & Active Infrared Thermography & simonov_infrared_2020 & Not specified & The study successfully used active infrared thermography to detect hidden corrosion in metallic shells. It proved effective for detecting material loss up to 15-20% in steel shells with thicknesses up to 8 mm, utilizing various thermal radiation sources.
6 & GPR & sossa_lab_2019 & Ex-situ & The study successfully applied GPR to detect corrosion-induced changes in reinforced concrete. It identified the potential for GPR to evaluate amplitude decay and signal intensity as indicators of corrosion severity. Costs not specified.
7 & Ultrasonic Thickness Measurement & sahu_review_2016 & In-situ & The study discusses the use of ultrasonic thickness measurement to evaluate the life of mild steel by monitoring corrosion. It emphasizes the importance of minimizing measurement errors due to corrosion impacts. The method proved reliable for predictive maintenance and cost-effective by potentially avoiding unexpected failures.
8 &  Microwave NDT and Thermography & pieper_integration_2014 & Ex-situ & The study successfully integrated microwave NDT and thermography for detecting corrosion on reinforcing steel bars (rebar), highlighting enhanced detection capabilities with potentially longer scan times due to microwave use.
9 & Optical Techniques & hardy_non-destructive_2021 & In-situ &  The study successfully highlights the use of optical techniques for initial diagnosis of boiler evaporators'92 surface conditions. It emphasizes the need for reliable NDT methods to manage fire-side corrosion risks in boilers using low-quality biofuels. Cost specifics were not mentioned, focusing instead on the necessity and effectiveness of these methods in real-world applications.

Electrochemical Deterioration

Galvanic Corrosion: Galvanic corrosion occurs when two dissimilar metals are in electrical contact in the presence of an electrolyte, leading to accelerated corrosion of the more anodic metal jha_ceramic_2023. 

Pitting Corrosion: Pitting corrosion is a localized attack leading to the formation of small pits on the metal surface, often hard to detect and potentially leading to perforation toghraee_oxidation_2020.

Crevice Corrosion: Similar to pitting, crevice corrosion occurs in shielded areas like joints and crevices where the stagnant electrolyte is present bocharov_high_2021.

Intergranular Corrosion: Intergranular corrosion is a selective attack along the grain boundaries of an alloy, often due to the presence of impurities or depletion of chromium in stainless steels singh_role_2020.

Stress Corrosion Cracking (SCC): SCC involves the combined influence of tensile stress and a corrosive environment, leading to cracking along grain boundaries huang_oxidation_2020.

Erosion Corrosion: Erosion corrosion is accelerated corrosion due to the relative movement between a corrosive fluid and the metal surface, enhancing mechanical wear and chemical attack tikone_performance_2020.

To further explore the electrochemical properties and resistance of materials under corrosive conditions, various electrochemical tests were conducted. These included EIS, TGA, Potentiostat measurements, and more.

The study successfully applied a ceramic coating to protect steel at high temperatures, significantly reducing weight gain from oxidation compared to uncoated samples. The electrochemical tests, including EIS and Tafel extrapolation, demonstrated enhanced corrosion resistance. No specific costs were mentioned, but the method showed potential for extending the life of steel components in harsh environments jha_ceramic_2023.

Using a multiphase field model, the study simulated high-temperature oxidation and stress in steel. This method successfully captured oxide growth and stress interaction, essential for understanding oxidation impacts under various temperatures and geometries. No specific mention of costs toghraee_oxidation_2020.

The study utilized DTA to investigate the high-temperature corrosion of thin sheet steel 08kp in air. This method effectively registered thermal effects and differentiated reactions in scale formation, offering a deeper understanding of oxidation processes and their impact on steel properties. Cost implications were not discussed in the study bocharov_high_2021.

The study established oxidation kinetics by thermos-gravimetric methods and analyzed the oxidized samples using X-ray, SEM, and EDAX. It showed that high-temperature oxidation rates vary among different treatments, with intense spalling observed in cast samples compared to wrought forms singh_role_2020.

Successful observation of oxidation dynamics, with varying degrees of oxide film integrity and spallation at different temperatures and durations. Cost not mentioned huang_oxidation_2020.

The study effectively predicts deterioration and structural performance under corrosion with empirical models. It demonstrates significant implications for structural integrity and load capacity over time. Cost not mentioned tikone_performance_2020.

Tensile coupon tests: Successfully evaluated temperature effects on mechanical properties. Provides valuable predictive equations for fire-resistance design. Cost not discussed wang_mechanical_2020.

SEM-EDS, XRD: High oxidation resistance at 900'b0C due to dense surface film; catastrophic oxidation at 1000'b0C. Detailed analysis of oxidation kinetics and mechanisms. Cost not discussed yang_high-temperature_2020.

Advanced characterization techniques: Detailed microstructural analysis revealing triplex oxide structure. Internal oxidation was identified as a controlling mechanism, contradicting previous models. Cost not discussed shen_new_2020.

Oxidation kinetics and subsurface transformations were analyzed. Recommends a protective atmosphere for heat treatments to avoid property deterioration. Cost not discussed liu_oxidation_2020.

Sodium Silicate Melts: Analyzed sodium silicate melt effects at different concentrations on steel oxidation and lubricity at 920 'b0C. Metasilicate showed superior lubricity due to unique tribofilm formation. Cost not discussed pham_intrinsic_2020.

Digital weight balance, Vickers hardness testing machine, camera: Studied oxidation effects on plated and non-plated steels at high temperatures. Findings suggest varied oxidation rates and surface hardness changes. Cost not discussed alemayehu_analysis_2023.

The discussion above delves into various aspects of electrochemical deterioration and oxidation studies in metals, particularly steel, under high-temperature conditions. In terms of electrochemical deterioration, several mechanisms such as galvanic corrosion, pitting corrosion, crevice corrosion, intergranular corrosion, SCC, and erosion-corrosion have been identified. These mechanisms highlight the diverse ways in which metals can degrade when exposed to corrosive environments and mechanical stresses.

In the realm of oxidation studies, a wide range of analytical techniques and methodologies have been employed to investigate the oxidation behavior of steel at elevated temperatures. These include electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), TGA, potentiostat, multiphase field modeling, DTA, thermo-gravimetric methods, X-ray analysis, SEM, energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDAX), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and advanced characterization techniques.
Each of these techniques provides valuable insights into the oxidation kinetics, mechanisms, and structural changes occurring in steel during high-temperature exposure. For instance, electrochemical tests such as EIS and Tafel extrapolation offer information on corrosion resistance and kinetics, while DTA helps in understanding thermal effects during oxidation. Similarly, advanced characterization techniques like SEM, EDAX, and XRD provide detailed microstructural analysis and identification of oxide phases.
The summarized information in Table ref{table: electrochemical will further detail the specific methodologies used in each study, including the exact NDT tools, citation references, whether the analysis was performed in-situ or ex-situ, and any additional comments or findings highlighted in the studies. This table will serve as a comprehensive reference for researchers and engineers studying the electrochemical deterioration and oxidation behavior of steel in high-temperature environments.


1 & Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS), TGA, Potentiostat & jha_ceramic_2023 & Ex-situ & The study was successful in applying a ceramic coating to protect steel at high temperatures, significantly reducing weight gain from oxidation compared to uncoated samples. The electrochemical tests, including EIS and Tafel extrapolation, demonstrated enhanced corrosion resistance. No specific costs were mentioned, but the method showed potential for extending the life of steel components in harsh environments.
2 & Multiphase Field Model & toghraee_oxidation_2020 &  Ex-situ & The study used a multiphase field model to simulate high-temperature oxidation and stress in steel. This method successfully captured oxide growth and stress interaction, which are essential for understanding oxidation impacts under various temperatures and geometries. No specific mention of costs.
3 & DTA & bocharov_high_2021 & In-situ & The study utilized differential thermal analysis to investigate the high-temperature corrosion of thin sheet steel 08kp in air. This method was effective in registering thermal effects and differentiating reactions in scale formation, offering a deeper understanding of oxidation processes and their impact on steel properties. Cost implications were not discussed in the study.
4 & Thermo-gravimetric methods, X-ray analysis, SEM, EDAX & singh_role_2020 & In-situ & The study established oxidation kinetics by thermo-gravimetric methods and analyzed the oxidized samples using X-ray, SEM, and EDAX. It showed that high-temperature oxidation rates vary among different treatments, with intense spalling observed in cast samples compared to wrought forms.
5 & Characterization Techniques (e.g., microscopy, spectroscopy) & huang_oxidation_2020 & Ex-situ & Successful observation of oxidation dynamics, with varying degrees of oxide film integrity and spallation at different temperatures and durations. Cost not mentioned. 
6 & Empirical modeling and deterioration prediction  & tikone_performance_2020 & In-situ & The study effectively predicts deterioration and structural performance under corrosion with empirical models. Demonstrates significant implications for structural integrity and load capacity over time. Cost not mentioned. 
7 & Tensile coupon tests & wang_mechanical_2020 & Ex-situ & Successfully evaluated temperature effects on mechanical properties. Provides valuable predictive equations for fire-resistance design. Cost not discussed. 
8 & SEM-EDS, XRD & yang_high-temperature_2020 & Ex-situ & High oxidation resistance at 900'b0C due to dense surface film; catastrophic oxidation at 1000'b0C. Detailed analysis of oxidation kinetics and mechanisms. Cost not discussed. 
9 & Advanced characterization techniques & shen_new_2020 & Ex-situ & Detailed microstructural analysis revealing triplex oxide structure. Internal oxidation was identified as a controlling mechanism, contradicting previous models. Cost not discussed. 
10 & Not specified & liu_oxidation_2020 & Ex-situ & Oxidation kinetics and subsurface transformations analyzed. Recommends a protective atmosphere for heat treatments to avoid property deterioration. Cost not discussed. 
11 & SEM, EDS, XRD, X-ray mapping & saroop_evaluation_2020 & Ex-situ & Examined WC-12%Co coatings under actual boiler conditions; enhanced oxidation resistance but partial consumption over time. Detailed corrosion rates are provided. Cost not discussed. 
12 & Sodium Silicate Melts & pham_intrinsic_2020 & Ex-situ & Analyzed sodium silicate melt effects at different concentrations on steel oxidation and lubricity at 920 'b0C. Metasilicate showed superior lubricity due to unique tribofilm formation. Cost not discussed. 
13 & Digital weight balance, Vickers hardness testing machine, camera & alemayehu_analysis_2023 & Ex-situ & Studied oxidation effects on plated and non-plated steels at high temperatures. Findings suggest varied oxidation rates and surface hardness changes. Cost not discussed. 


Mechanical Deterioration
Mechanical deterioration of materials, particularly metals and steels, is a significant concern in various industries. This deterioration can occur due to fatigue, wear, and hydrogen embrittlement, leading to the initiation and propagation of cracks, material loss, and brittleness, respectively. These issues can cause eventual failure of the materials, impacting the reliability and safety of structures and systems where these materials are used.

Fatigue: Repeated stress cycles leading to the initiation and propagation of cracks, eventually causing failure.
Wear: Material loss due to mechanical action by a harder material, not necessarily involving a chemical or electrochemical reaction but can be exacerbated by corrosive conditions.
Hydrogen Embrittlement: Absorption of hydrogen leads to brittleness and cracking, often as a secondary effect of electrochemical reactions.
 NDT methods have been extensively used to investigate these mechanical deterioration mechanisms. For instance, standard tensile steel specimens were used to study hydrogen embrittlement in low-carbon steel, revealing the impact of hydrogenation on the mechanical properties of the steel siddiqui_hydrogen_2007. Advanced characterization techniques, such as SEM and Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM), have been employed to study the impacts of hydrogen embrittlement on crack enlargement, fracture initiation, and mechanical property deterioration pradhan_review_2020.
Moreover, comprehensive reviews of hydrogen embrittlement in steels have been conducted, covering experimental, modeling, and design progress from atomistic to continuum scales barrera_understanding_2018. These studies discuss the complex nature of hydrogen embrittlement, its effects on ductility and load-bearing capacity, and mechanisms of failure. They also highlight the significance of non-diffusible hydrogen in heat-treated austenitic stainless steels and its impact on fatigue crack growth rates noauthor_hydrogen_nodate.
NDT methods have also been used to reveal detailed microstructural analysis, such as the triplex oxide structure and internal oxidation, which were identified as controlling mechanisms shen_new_2020. Mechanical testing has demonstrated that rolling contact fatigue life is dramatically reduced in the presence of hydrogen, while hardness and impact toughness remain nearly unchanged noauthor_unveiling_nodate.
In conclusion,  NDT methods provide a powerful tool for understanding and mitigating mechanical deterioration in materials. They allow for the in-depth investigation of deterioration mechanisms and the development of strategies to enhance the durability and reliability of materials. As presented in Table ref{table: mechanical, these methods can be applied in both in-situ and ex-situ scenarios, offering flexibility in their use. However, the cost-effectiveness of these methods and their applicability in different scenarios should be further explored. This comprehensive overview underscores the importance of continued research and development in this field to ensure the longevity and safety of our infrastructure.

1& Standard tensile steel specimens & siddiqui_hydrogen_2007& Ex-situ & The study investigates hydrogen embrittlement in low-carbon steel. Standard tensile steel specimens were hydrogenated and deformed by cold working to investigate mechanical properties.
2 & SEM, TEM  & pradhan_review_2020 & In-situ &The study investigates the impact of hydrogen embrittlement on the fatigue strength of high-strength steel, with a focus on advanced high-strength steels (AHSS) commonly used in the automobile sector. SEM and TEM were utilized to study the impacts of hydrogen embrittlement on crack enlargement, fracture initiation, and mechanical property deterioration.
3 &  Steels? & barrera_understanding_2018 & Ex-situ & The paper provides a comprehensive review of hydrogen embrittlement in steels, covering experimental, modeling, and design progress from atomistic to continuum scales. It discusses the complex nature of hydrogen embrittlement, its effects on ductility and load-bearing capacity, and mechanisms of failure. The review includes theoretical evidence supported by quantum calculations, modern experimental characterization methods, and approaches for mitigating hydrogen embrittlement in steel design.
4 & Thermal Desorption Spectroscopy (TDS) & noauthor_hydrogen_nodate & Ex-situ & investigates the hydrogen embrittlement mechanism in the fatigue behavior of austenitic stainless steels. It reveals that hydrogen concentration at crack tips leads to hydrogen-enhanced slip, resulting in microscopic ductile fracture. Fatigue crack growth rates in the presence of hydrogen are found to be strongly frequency dependent. The study highlights the significance of nondiffusible hydrogen in heat-treated austenitic stainless steels and its impact on fatigue crack growth rates, with implications for special heat treatments to mitigate hydrogen embrittlement.
5 & Advanced characterization techniques & shen_new_2020 & Ex-situ & Detailed microstructural analysis revealing triplex oxide structure. Internal oxidation was identified as a controlling mechanism, contradicting previous models. Cost not discussed. 
6 & Mechanical testing & noauthor_unveiling_nodate & Ex-situ & Demonstrated that rolling contact fatigue life is dramatically reduced in the presence of hydrogen, while hardness and impact toughness remain nearly unchanged. Proposed a new technique to determine the nature of the hydrogen embrittlement process. Cost not discussed. 
7 & Failure analysis & noauthor_hydrogen_nodate & Ex-situ & Outlines the hydrogen damage processes and provides metallurgical recommendations to reduce susceptibility to hydrogen damage. Highlights that hydrogen reduces the service life of many metallic components, leading to unexpected brittle fracture, termed as hydrogen embrittlement. Cost not discussed. 
8 & Mechanical testing & louthan_hydrogen_2008 & Ex-situ & Investigated the mechanical properties and remaining strength of corroded galvanized steel wires. Found that hydrogen embrittlement is unlikely to occur, and that fatigue strength decreases after corrosion of the steel below the galvanized layer progresses, especially under wet environments. The fracture surface was similar to that caused by corrosion fatigue rather than hydrogen embrittlement. Cost not discussed. 
9 & Mechanical testing & nakamura_hydrogen_2009 & Ex-situ & The study demonstrated that the mechanical properties of brick masonry and its components vary as the concentration of salts increased in the simulated environment. The study was conducted in a laboratory under artificially created aggressive environment conditions. The materials used include brick masonry units made of bricks and masonry mortar, which comprises ordinary Portland cement, fine aggregate (manufactured sand), and water. Two different brands of burnt clay bricks were used. The bricks and mortar were tested for mechanical properties such as compressive strength and reduction in weight under varying concentrations of sodium chloride (NaCl) and magnesium sulphate (MgSO4) for a total duration of 13 weeks. 





