{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww33400\viewh19380\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\\subsection\{Timber/Wood\}\
Wood is a natural, organic material that has been used for thousands of years as a primary construction material due to its abundance, renewability, and relatively easy processing. It is derived from the trunks and branches of trees and is composed primarily of cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin, which contribute to its strength, durability, and resistance to decay under certain conditions. In construction, wood is prized for its unique aesthetic qualities, its insulating properties, and its versatility. It can be used in everything from structural framing and flooring to decorative elements and furniture. Wood's ability to absorb and release moisture, adapt to varying environmental conditions, and its overall sustainability make it a continued favorite in both traditional and modern architectural designs. As a renewable resource, when sourced responsibly, wood also offers an environmentally friendly alternative to many synthetic materials, playing a crucial role in sustainable construction practices.\
\
\\subsubsection\{Deterioration Mechanism of Wood\}\
Wood's susceptibility to deterioration is a significant concern in both its functional and aesthetic capacities, making the understanding of its decay mechanisms crucial for maintaining the longevity of wood-based structures. Here\'92s a breakdown of the primary deterioration mechanisms:\
\
\\begin\{itemize\}\
    \\item \\mybold\{Physical Deterioration\}: This involves changes caused by environmental factors such as temperature, moisture, and UV radiation. Wood responds to these factors by expanding and contracting, which can lead to warping, splitting, and cracking. Over time, these physical stresses can degrade the wood's structural integrity.\
    \\item \\mybold\{Chemical Deterioration\}: Wood is also vulnerable to chemical changes, which can be catalyzed by exposure to pollutants, acids, and alkalis in the environment. These agents can react with the cellulose and lignin in wood, leading to a breakdown of its fundamental structure. Additionally, prolonged exposure to sunlight can cause photochemical degradation, altering the wood's color and composition.\
\
    \\item \\mybold\{Biological Deterioration\}: The most complex of the decay mechanisms, biological deterioration involves the breakdown of wood by living organisms such as fungi, bacteria, and insects. Fungi can decompose wood by attacking the cellulose and lignin, leading to rot. Bacteria, though less aggressive, can degrade wood under certain conditions, especially in anaerobic environments like waterlogged sites. Insects such as termites and beetles can cause considerable physical damage through their feeding activities.\
\\end\{itemize\}\
\
Effective mitigation strategies involve a combination of chemical treatments, such as preservatives and repellents, and design approaches that reduce wood's exposure to harmful environmental conditions. Additionally, regular inspections and maintenance are vital to detect early signs of decay and implement corrective measures promptly. These strategies help extend the lifespan of wood and maintain its structural and aesthetic qualities.\
\
\\subsubsubsection\{Physical Deterioration\}\
\\mybold\{Moisture Changes in Wood and the Role of NDT Methods\}:\
Moisture content significantly influences the durability, mechanical properties, and susceptibility to decay of wood. Given its hygroscopic nature, wood absorbs or releases moisture based on environmental conditions, leading to physical changes such as swelling, shrinking, warping, cracking, or splitting. Understanding and managing these moisture-related changes are crucial for enhancing the longevity and performance of wood products across various applications.  NDT methods play a pivotal role in monitoring these changes without damaging the wood, providing valuable insights that guide preservation and maintenance efforts.\
\
\\cite\{brischke_wood-water_2020\} emphasize the importance of determining moisture thresholds to prevent fungal decay, using advanced NDT methods like calorimetry, DVS, DSC, LFNMR, microspectroscopy, and chemometrics. These techniques allow for a detailed analysis of moisture interactions at the microscopic level, crucial for developing effective wood protection strategies. Similarly, \\cite\{siau_basic_1984\} explores how environmental humidity affects wood, employing basic yet effective moisture measurement techniques to highlight the importance of managing moisture levels to enhance wood's performance and prevent decay.\
\
\\cite\{gibson_creep_1965\} examines wood's creep behavior under the influence of moisture, demonstrating how environmental moisture affects wood's mechanical properties through creep measurement methods. \\cite\{carll_moisture-related_2009\} discusses how moisture impacts wood's structural and biological properties, using electrical resistance meters to track moisture content in situ, which helps optimize wood usage in construction by preventing moisture-related damage.\
\
\
\\cite\{dietsch_methods_2015\} assesses various NDT methods such as electrical resistance, dielectric constant measurements, and microwave techniques for real-time monitoring of wood moisture content. These methods are critical in enhancing building maintenance and safety by ensuring the structural integrity of wood in construction. Furthermore, studies utilizing NMR techniques, like those by \\cite\{meel_moisture_2011\}, provide insights into how different coatings affect moisture absorption in wood, revealing the sorption behavior's dependence on the wood-coating combination.\
\
\
\\cite\{zlahtic-zupanc_changes_2018\} uses a combination of in-situ and ex-situ methods, including moisture monitoring sensors, to evaluate how natural weathering affects wood's moisture performance. This study shows how weathering significantly decreases the moisture performance of wood, especially in thermally modified samples. \\cite\{fredriksson_sorption_2019\} explores the sorption hysteresis in wood, employing techniques like Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) and pressure plate techniques to analyze moisture interactions within wood's microstructure, crucial for improving wood product durability.\
\
\\cite\{thybring_wood_2021\} reviews how wood modification techniques can elucidate wood-moisture interactions, highlighting the role of NMR in studying the internal moisture dynamics and the effects of chemical alterations on wood's functional properties.\
\
\
The studies outlined in Table \\ref\{table: moisture\} demonstrate the critical role of moisture in the deterioration and preservation of wood, highlighting the need for precise NDT methods to effectively monitor and manage wood moisture content. These methods not only help extend the lifespan of wood products and structures but also ensure their optimal performance under varying environmental conditions.\
\
\
1 & Calorimetry, DVS, DSC, LFNMR, microspectroscopy, chemometrics & \\cite\{brischke_wood-water_2020\}  & Both & The study focuses on quantifying moisture thresholds for fungal decay, crucial for wood durability assessments and protection strategies. It advocates interdisciplinary research integrating wood science and advanced analytical methods to elucidate these complex interactions. Key mechanics include capillary water dynamics and cell wall moisture interactions. \\\\\
\
2 & Moisture content measurement techniques & \\cite\{siau_basic_1984\} & Both & Siau's study highlights the fundamental principles of wood's interaction with environmental humidity, critical for enhancing wood drying methods and thus improving product quality and durability. The study focuses on low-cost, effective moisture content measurement techniques and examines crucial concepts like equilibrium moisture content and fiber saturation point, essential for preventing wood decay and optimizing wood performance in varying humidity conditions.\\\\\
\
\
3 & Creep measurement & \\cite\{gibson_creep_1965\} & Ex-situ & Gibson's study investigates the creep behavior of wood under varying moisture conditions, suggesting a dynamic interaction between water and the wood's structure. This research is fundamental for understanding how wood's mechanical properties change under different environmental conditions, which is crucial for applications where wood stability and durability are concerned. The focus on hydrogen bonds provides insights into the micro-mechanisms that contribute to wood strength and deformation. \\\\\
\
4 & Electrical resistance meters & \\cite\{carll_moisture-related_2009\} & In-situ & This study discusses how moisture impacts the physical, structural, and biological properties of wood and wood products. The focus is on understanding the detrimental effects of moisture on dimensional stability, mechanical connections, and susceptibility to biological attacks such as fungi and insects. The research emphasizes the importance of controlling moisture levels to ensure the durability and serviceability of wood in construction, suggesting optimal moisture ranges to prevent damage and enhance performance. \\\\\
\
5 & Electrical resistance, Dielectric constant, Microwave & \\cite\{dietsch_methods_2015\} & In-situ & This study examines various methods to determine wood moisture content, highlighting electrical resistance, dielectric constant measurements, and microwave techniques as effective NDT methods. The paper assesses their applicability in monitoring structural timber elements, crucial for preventing moisture-related damage and ensuring the structural integrity of wood in buildings. The focus is on the practical implementation of these methods in real-world scenarios to enhance building maintenance and safety. \\\\\
\
6 & NMR & \\cite\{meel_moisture_2011\} & Ex-situ & This study utilizes NMR to investigate how different coatings affect the moisture absorption of wood. NMR provides a dynamic, non-destructive method to measure local moisture content and rate of water absorption with high spatial and temporal resolution, differentiating between luminal and cell wall moisture. Findings indicate that the effectiveness of coatings in altering wood's moisture absorption varies with the combination of wood type and coating, affecting the wood's susceptibility to decay and structural performance. \\\\\
\
7 & Moisture monitoring sensors, contact angle, water uptake tests & \\cite\{zlahtic-zupanc_changes_2018\} & Both & This study investigates the effects of natural weathering on the moisture performance of various treated and untreated European wood species. Utilizing both smaller laboratory samples and larger outdoor-exposed specimens equipped with moisture monitoring sensors, the research demonstrates that weathering significantly decreases the moisture performance of wood, especially in thermally modified samples. Techniques like contact angle measurements and water uptake tests highlight the critical need for diverse laboratory tests to fully understand the moisture dynamics of weathered wood. \\\\\
\
8 & Pressure plate technique, DSC & \\cite\{fredriksson_sorption_2019\} & Ex-situ & This study explores sorption hysteresis across the full moisture range of wood, employing a novel combination of the pressure plate technique and DSC. It distinguishes between cell wall and capillary water, finding persistent hysteresis in cell wall water throughout the range. These findings challenge the traditional understanding that cell walls saturate before significant capillary water accumulates, crucial for refining wood moisture models and enhancing wood product durability. \\\\\
\
9 & No specific NDT method mentioned & \\cite\{desch_moisture_1996\} & Not specified & Desch and Dinwoodie's study addresses the impact of moisture on wood's physical properties and performance, emphasizing its influence on strength, stiffness, and susceptibility to fungal attack. The paper discusses the critical importance of reducing wood's moisture content to around 12\\% of its oven-dry mass for optimal use, particularly in terms of workability and the application of finishes and adhesives. The study provides a fundamental understanding of how moisture content affects wood and the necessity of controlling it in wood products.\\\\\
\
10 & NMR & \\cite\{thybring_wood_2021\} & Ex-situ & The paper explores various modification methods aimed at improving wood's resistance to decomposition and dimensional stability by altering wood chemistry. The review identifies knowledge gaps in the moisture dynamics within modified woods and suggests how these modifications could lead to new insights into preventing decay and improving wood's functionality in humid conditions.\\\\\
\
\
\\mybold\{Thermal Degradation of Wood and Associated NDT Methods\}:\
Thermal degradation of wood involves chemical and physical changes when exposed to high temperatures, affecting the wood's structural integrity, chemical composition, and physical properties. These changes are critical considerations in industries like construction and manufacturing, where the durability and performance of wood under thermal stress are vital. This review synthesizes insights from various studies exploring thermal degradation in wood using different  NDT methods.\
\
\
\\cite\{khasanshin_studying_2021\} studied the effects of UV exposure and thermal treatment on wood composites, utilizing UV exposure testing to observe increased surface wettability, which is crucial for enhancing binder adhesion in industrial applications. \\cite\{cai_effects_2020\} employed SEM and DSC to investigate the long-term impacts of environmental exposure on thermally modified wood, highlighting the accelerated degradation processes.\
\
\
\\cite\{dong_deterioration_2023\} applied techniques such as OM, X-ray Diffraction, and FTIR to assess the deterioration of historical timber structures, revealing significant morphological and chemical changes due to environmental and biological factors. \\cite\{mosallam_residual_2021\} used thermal cycling and UV exposure tests to study the degradation in mechanical properties of CFRP laminates, showing how environmental stresses significantly affect material properties.\
\
\
\
\\cite\{xu_comparative_2021\} utilized TGA to distinguish thermal degradation behaviors of hardwood and softwood, providing essential data on their thermal stability and decomposition processes, crucial for high-temperature applications. \\cite\{afoutou2024full\} employed ultrasonic testing to evaluate wood decay, demonstrating how changes in ultrasonic wave velocity correlate with the severity of decay, which is vital for early detection and management of wood deterioration.\
\
Furthermore, \\cite\{zielinska_non-destructive_2021\} reviewed the use of GPR, thermal techniques, and microwaves in assessing wooden structures, providing comprehensive insights into their internal condition and helping maintain structural integrity. \\cite\{machek_non-destructive_2004\} demonstrated the effectiveness of the vibration-impulse excitation technique in detecting early stages of decay in preservative-treated wood, highlighting its utility in preventive conservation.\
\
\\cite\{mahdiyanti_analysis_2019\} analyzed thermal degradation using Near Infrared Spectroscopy, Visible-Light Spectroscopy, and 2D Correlation Spectroscopy, offering a detailed characterization of chemical and physical changes during heat treatment. This approach is pivotal for developing processes that minimize degradation. The comprehensive review by \\cite\{niemz_non-destructive_2012\} discusses various NDT methods for wood and wood-based materials, emphasizing the importance of understanding wood physics to effectively apply these techniques.\
\
\
This collection of studies (see Table \\ref\{table: thermal\}) underscores the diverse approaches and NDT methodologies employed to understand and manage thermal degradation in wood. These methods provide vital data that contribute significantly to the field of wood conservation, maintenance, and research, ensuring that wood continues to perform optimally in various industrial applications despite exposure to adverse thermal conditions.\
\
\
1 &  UV exposure testing & \\cite\{khasanshin_studying_2021\} & Both & This study investigates how thermal modification and UV treatment alter the moisture absorption and surface wettability of wood, affecting the performance and cost of wood composites. It found that UV exposure increases surface wettability, improving adhesion with water-borne binders, crucial for developing strong composites. The experimental setup developed provides novel insights into optimizing wood treatments for enhanced composite performance.\\\\\
\
2 & SEM, DSC & \\cite\{cai_effects_2020\} & Ex-situ & This study investigates the long-term effects of moisture and weather exposure on thermally modified wood, particularly focusing on changes in chemical components, cellular structure, and physical properties. It found that prolonged exposure alters hemicelluloses and cellulose, increases hygroscopicity, and can lead to faster degradation in modified wood than in unmodified wood, especially during water contact exposure.\\\\\
\
3 & OM, X-ray Diffraction, FTIR & \\cite\{dong_deterioration_2023\} & Both & The study examines the degradation of historical timber structures at Yunnan Military Academy due to environmental and biological factors. Techniques likely including microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and FTIR were used to assess the changes in wood\'92s morphology, strength, and chemistry, highlighting the severe deterioration at exposed sites like eaves compared to more protected locations like columns.\\\\\
\
4 & Thermal cycling and UV exposure tests & \\cite\{mosallam_residual_2021\}  & Both & This study evaluates the degradation in mechanical properties of CFRP laminates used in bridges due to environmental stresses including thermal cycling and UV radiation. The research demonstrates that thermal cycling significantly affects the tensile and compressive properties of CFRP, while UV radiation notably impacts the tensile strength and modulus but less so on compressive and shear properties.\\\\\
\
5 & TGA & \\cite\{xu_comparative_2021\} & Ex-situ & This study examines the thermal degradation behaviors of hardwood (beech wood) and softwood (camphorwood) under oxygen-rich conditions. Employing TGA and kinetic models like Kissinger-Akahira-Sunose and Coats-Redfern differentiates the decomposition processes of these woods. It found that hardwood has higher activation energies and degrades at higher temperatures compared to softwood, suggesting its better thermal stability.\\\\\
\
6 & Ultrasonic & \\cite\{afoutou2024full\} & In-situ & This study employs ultrasonic NDT to evaluate the decay of wood, focusing on how ultrasonic wave velocity changes with temperature and moisture content. The relationship between wood decay, as induced by T palustris, and ultrasonic wave velocity was explored, contributing significantly to the understanding of decay processes in wood and its early detection.\\\\\
\
7 & GPR, Thermal Techniques, Microwaves & \\cite\{zielinska_non-destructive_2021\} & Ex-situ & This review discusses the use of GPR, thermal techniques, and microwaves as NDT methods for assessing wooden elements. These methods provide comprehensive insights into the internal condition of wooden structures, highlighting their capabilities and limitations in identifying structural defects and assessing material integrity.\\\\\
\
8 & Vibration-Impulse Excitation Technique & \\cite\{machek_non-destructive_2004\} & Both & This study utilizes the vibration-impulse excitation technique as a NDT method to assess decay in preservative-treated wood. It proves effective in detecting early stages of wood decay, particularly under laboratory conditions, highlighting the technique\'92s sensitivity and utility in preserving wood integrity.\\\\\
\
9 & Near Infrared Spectroscopy, Visible-Light Spectroscopy, 2D Correlation Spectroscopy & \\cite\{mahdiyanti_analysis_2019\} & Both & This study employs Near Infrared Spectroscopy and Visible-Light Spectroscopy, enhanced by 2D Correlation Spectroscopy, to analyze thermal degradation in wood. These techniques provide a comprehensive view of the chemical and physical changes, particularly color alterations, occurring in wood under thermal stress, demonstrating their effectiveness in detailed material characterization.\\\\\
\
10 & Various NDT methods (not specified) & \\cite\{niemz_non-destructive_2012\} & Not specified & This comprehensive review discusses a range of NDT methods for wood and wood-based materials, covering their applications in controlling production processes and assessing cultural heritage objects. The paper emphasizes the importance of understanding wood physics to effectively apply NDT methods for evaluating wood properties and degradation under various conditions.\
\
\
\\mybold\{Ultraviolet (UV) Light Exposure\}: UV radiation from sunlight can break down lignin in wood, leading to surface graying and weakening of the wood's surface layers.\
\
\\cite\{bisht_photostable_2021\} investigated the UV resistance of Transparent Wood Composite (TWC), an innovative material with potential applications in smart windows and energy-efficient building elements. This 2021 study focused on enhancing the photostability of TWC by modifying lignin in poplar wood veneers and incorporating an epoxy resin doped with a UV absorber (2-(2H-Benzotriazol-2-yl)-4, 6-di-tert-pentylphenol). Despite its high optical transmittance and good mechanical properties, TWC was found to be highly sensitive to UV exposure, exhibiting rapid photodiscolouration, chemical degradation, and reduced optical transmittance when subjected to accelerated weathering tests. The inclusion of UV absorbers significantly mitigated these effects, underscoring the necessity of UV stabilization in the development of TWC for outdoor applications. This study highlights the challenges and solutions in maintaining the integrity and appearance of TWC when exposed to sunlight.\
\
In their 2022 study,\\cite\{sun_surface_2022\} explored the combined effects of solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR) and mechanical abrasion (MA) on the degradation of plastic films and the consequent release of microplastics (MPs). This research specifically analyzed how different conditions\'97UVR, MA, and a combination of both (UVR+MA)\'97affect two types of plastic films, polyethylene (PE) and thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU). The findings indicate that the combined UVR+MA treatment significantly accelerates surface degradation and enhances the release of MPs, more so than either condition alone. Notably, the study revealed that PE films are more susceptible to these degradation processes, releasing more MPs compared to TPU under all tested conditions. OM served as a non-invasive method to assess these changes, with the alteration in optical transmittance providing a quantifiable measure of MP release. This comprehensive analysis helps elucidate the complex dynamics of plastic degradation and microplastic generation, offering crucial insights into environmental impacts and the resilience of different polymers to common environmental stressors.\
\
Further, \\cite\{cirule_photodegradation_2021\} conducted a study published in 2021 exploring the photodegradation of both thermally modified (TM) and unmodified (UM) wood when exposed to UV radiation and LED lamps, which are prevalent in various indoor settings. The research examined ash, aspen, and pine woods, focusing on changes in color (measured in CIELAB color space), chemical structure alterations (observed through FTIR spectroscopy), and the formation of water-soluble components. The findings revealed that LED lamps, much like UV radiation, can significantly degrade wood, causing noticeable color changes and chemical transformations. Interestingly, TM wood exhibited better photo-stability under UV exposure compared to UM wood, although TM wood showed more pronounced changes in FTIR spectra under LED light exposure. The comparative analysis between TM and UM wood across different species indicated that TM wood experiences consistent photodegradation patterns, while UM wood shows more variable responses. This study underscores the need to consider both sources of light\'97natural and artificial\'97in assessing the durability and longevity of wood used in interior applications.\
\
\\cite\{goodwin_impacts_2020\} conducted an insightful study into the effects of moisture and ultraviolet (UV) light on the degradation of graphene oxide (GO)/polymer nanocomposites, particularly focusing on waterborne polyurethane (WBPU), which is widely used as an exterior coating. This research employed the NIST Simulated Photodegradation via High Energy Radiant Exposure (SPHERE) device to explore how GO nanofillers influence polymer durability under controlled accelerated weathering conditions. The findings highlighted that GO slightly improves the durability of WBPU under dry UV conditions but does not provide the same benefit under humid UV conditions. Furthermore, techniques such as Raman spectroscopy, SEM, and atomic force microscopy revealed that GO tends to accumulate at the surface of the polymer nanocomposite more rapidly under humid conditions. Additionally, while minimal GO was released under dry conditions, significant transformations on the PNC surface under humid conditions suggested increased GO release. This study underscores the complex interaction between GO fillers, UV radiation, and moisture, providing critical insights into the stability and environmental behavior of GO-enhanced polymer coatings.\
\
In addition, \\cite\{aquino_effect_2021\} investigated the impact of artificial weathering on the physical and mechanical properties of Eucalyptus sp. and Cupi\'faba (Goupia glabra) woods, simulating the natural effects of environmental exposure. Conducted in a UV radiation chamber with controlled humidity and temperature, the study followed aging cycles based on ASTM G154 (2006) over periods of 100, 200, 300, and 400 hours. The properties assessed included the conventional value of strength in static bending (fM), modulus of elasticity in static bending (EM), strength in compression parallel to grain (fc0), and Janka Hardness (fH) as per ABNT NBT 7190 (1997) standards. Statistical analysis revealed that, although most wood properties did not show significant changes over the aging process, a general decrease in the absolute values of these properties was observed. Notably, only the Janka Hardness of Cupi\'faba wood exhibited significant performance deterioration after 100 and 200 hours of exposure, likely due to surface changes induced by the weathering conditions. This study highlights the nuanced effects of artificial weathering on different types of wood, emphasizing the resilience of some properties while noting the vulnerability of others to prolonged environmental exposure.\
\
\\cite\{noauthor_potential_nodate\} explored the use of natural pigments extracted from wood decay fungi\'97specifically Scytalidium cuboideum (red pigmentation) and Chlorociboria aeruginosa (blue-green pigmentation)\'97as potential additives to wood coatings to combat UV-light degradation, a leading cause of aesthetic deterioration in outdoor wooden structures. These pigments, known for their historical use in woodworking and exceptional UV-light resistance properties, were solubilized in raw linseed oil and applied to Douglas-fir and western white pine samples. The treated wood was subjected to accelerated weathering tests using a Q-UV machine according to ASTM G154 standard for periods of 500 and 1000 hours. The study revealed that while the application of pigmented oil did not alter the color of the wood, it significantly enhanced the durability of the coating, particularly the red pigment oil, which demonstrated notable resistance to coating degradation at 500 hours of exposure. This research highlights the viability of using fungal pigments as sustainable alternatives to synthetic pigments in the wood coating industry, offering not only enhanced protection against UV degradation but also aligning with the shift towards renewable products.\
\
In summary, Ultraviolet light exposure is a predominant factor in the degradation of various materials, particularly in outdoor environments where it can lead to significant aesthetic and structural deterioration. This section has explored several studies demonstrating how UV exposure induces changes in wood, polymers, and composite materials, focusing on mechanisms like color fading, chemical breakdown, and the release of microplastics.\
\
NDT methods have been crucial in assessing the extent and nature of UV-induced degradation. Techniques such as accelerated weathering tests, FTIR spectroscopy, and color change analysis have been employed to evaluate the stability and deterioration of materials under simulated environmental conditions. These methods allow for the monitoring of changes without causing further damage to the test samples, providing invaluable data on the durability and longevity of materials used in construction and other industries.\
\
For detailed insights into the specific deterioration mechanisms and the efficacy of various NDT methods used in the studies, Table \\ref\{table: uv\} in the attached document offers a comprehensive overview. This table encapsulates the key aspects of UV degradation, including the type of deterioration, NDT methods employed, the context of the studies (in-situ or ex-situ), and additional comments on the success and cost implications of the methods. Such organized data presentation supports a better understanding of the challenges and solutions associated with UV exposure, aiding in the development of more durable and sustainable materials.\
\
1  & Accelerated Weathering Tests, FTIR Spectroscopy, Colour Change Analysis & \\cite\{bisht_photostable_2021\} & Ex-situ & Demonstrates TWC's sensitivity to UV light, emphasizing the need for UV stabilizers to mitigate photo-degradation and ensure durability in outdoor applications.\\\\\
\
2  & UV Radiation Analysis, Mechanical Abrasion Testing, OM & \\cite\{sun_surface_2022\} & Ex-situ & Investigates the combined effects of UV radiation and mechanical abrasion on plastic films, highlighting accelerated surface degradation and increased microplastics release.\\\\\
\
3  & UV Radiation Analysis, LED Light Exposure, FTIR Spectroscopy, Colour Space Analysis & \\cite\{cirule_photodegradation_2021\}& Ex-situ & Highlights the photodegradation of wood under UV and LED lighting, showing notable changes in color, chemical structure, and formation of water-soluble components, with TM wood exhibiting variable photo-stability.\\\\\
\
4  & Accelerated Weathering Tests, Infrared and Raman Spectroscopy, SEM, AFM & \\cite\{goodwin_impacts_2020\} & Ex-situ & Examines the effects of moisture and UV on graphene oxide/polymer nanocomposites, indicating GO's role in altering polymer degradation patterns under varying UV and moisture conditions.\\\\\
\
5  & Artificial Weathering Testing, Static Bending, Compression, and Hardness Analysis &  \\cite\{aquino_effect_2021\}& Ex-situ & Explores the impact of artificial weathering on Eucalyptus and Cupi\'faba woods, noting general stability in mechanical properties with some reductions in hardness in Cupi\'faba after short-term exposure.\\\\\
\
6  & Accelerated Weathering Machine Testing, Coating Degradation Analysis & \\cite\{noauthor_potential_nodate\} & Ex-situ & Investigates the use of natural fungal pigments in wood coatings to combat UV-induced 'greying,' showing significant protective effects, especially with red pigment, in enhancing coating durability and aesthetic retention.\\\\\
\
\\subsubsubsection\{Chemical Deterioration\}\
\\mybold\{Acid Hydrolysis in Wood and Associated NDT Methods\}: \
Acid hydrolysis in wood involves the breakdown of cellulose and hemicelluloses under acidic conditions, which can significantly alter the wood's structural integrity and chemical composition. This chemical process is essential in various applications, from biofuel production to material degradation studies, necessitating a deep understanding of the interaction between wood and acids. NDT methods are crucial for evaluating these interactions and assessing the extent of degradation without damaging the wood, thereby guiding effective preservation or enhancement strategies.\
\
\\cite\{springer_procedures_1985\} developed methods to measure hydronium ion concentrations during wood hydrolysis with mineral acids, providing essential insights into the kinetics and mechanisms of hydrolysis and its impact on wood. \\cite\{gutsch_comparative_2012\} emphasized the impacts of various acids on hydrolysis efficiency and product quality, highlighting the importance of selecting appropriate hydrolysis conditions for optimal outcomes. \\cite\{sievers_quantitative_2009\} utilized quantitative solid-state NMR to analyze the residues from acid hydrolysis of loblolly pine, offering a detailed chemical profile of the hydrolyzed wood.\
 \
\
Further, \\cite\{dahlman_analysis_2000\} employed enzymatic hydrolysis followed by capillary zone electrophoresis to analyze the carbohydrate composition in wood and pulps, which allows for the precise quantification of sugars and uronic acids essential for understanding the structural changes in hydrolyzed wood. \\cite\{silwadi_pretreatment_2023\} explored chemical pretreatments to enhance acid hydrolysis in Prosopis juliflora wood, using SEM and XRD to assess changes in cellulose crystallinity and structural integrity.\
\
\
\\cite\{wang_effects_2017\} examined how different durations of acid hydrolysis affect the properties of starch-based wood adhesives, using FTIR and NMR to analyze the molecular structure changes, which are critical for assessing improvements in adhesive properties. \\cite\{__1997\} analyzed the structural characteristics of lignin in wood pulps using Py-GC, providing insights into the chemical characteristics of acid-insoluble residues. \\cite\{noauthor_study_nodate\} used HPLC to determine the glucose and xylose content after acid hydrolysis of thermally modified ash wood, essential for evaluating the efficiency of hydrolysis processes.\
 \
\
\\cite\{grethlein_common_1991\} explored acid prehydrolysis and steam explosion as methods to enhance enzymatic hydrolysis of wood, crucial for efficient sugar release from wood, enhancing biofuel production processes. \\cite\{niemz_non-destructive_2012\} covered a range of NDT methods for evaluating wood properties, crucial for effectively applying these methods in various industrial and conservation settings.\
\
\
\
This collection of studies illustrates the diverse approaches and methodologies employed to understand and manage acid hydrolysis in wood, as detailed in Table \\ref\{table: acid\}. Through the use of NDT methods, researchers can gain a comprehensive understanding of the degradation processes, thereby developing strategies to preserve wood's structural integrity and enhance its processing for various applications in challenging environmental and industrial settings. These NDT methods not only help monitor the progress and efficacy of hydrolysis treatments but also ensure the conservation of valuable wood resources.\
\
\
1 & Hydronium ion concentration measurement & \\cite\{springer_procedures_1985\} & Not specified & This study focuses on determining the neutralizing capacity of wood during hydrolysis with mineral acids, utilizing measurements of hydronium ion concentrations to understand the kinetics and mechanisms of hydrolysis. The method provides critical insights into the acid-base interactions within the wood that significantly impact hydrolysis efficiency and product yield.\\\\\
\
\
2 & HPLC & \\cite\{gutsch_comparative_2012\} & Ex-situ & This study compares autohydrolysis and acid-catalyzed hydrolysis effects on Eucalyptus globulus wood. Methods such as HPLC, NIR, and XRD, although not specified, are commonly employed to analyze the outcomes of these processes, focusing on chemical efficiencies and structural transformations essential for industrial applications.\\\\\
\
3 & Solid State NMR & \\cite\{sievers_quantitative_2009\} & Ex-situ & This study employs solid-state NMR to quantitatively analyze the residues from acid hydrolysis of loblolly pine wood. The technique provides detailed insights into the composition of hydrolyzed wood, including the identification of lignin and carbohydrate fractions. The use of solid-state NMR allows for an NDT, in-depth chemical analysis, essential for optimizing hydrolysis processes and understanding the degradation mechanisms.\\\\\
\
4 & Capillary Zone Electrophoresis & \\cite\{dahlman_analysis_2000\} & Ex-situ & This study utilizes enzymatic hydrolysis followed by capillary zone electrophoresis to analyze the carbohydrate composition of wood and pulp samples. The method allows for precise quantification of monosaccharides and uronic acids, providing a detailed understanding of the structural elements in the polysaccharides of wood and pulp. This non-destructive approach is essential for assessing the effects of hydrolysis on carbohydrate distribution and composition in wood materials.\\\\\
\
\
5 & SEM, X-ray Diffraction (XRD) & \\cite\{silwadi_pretreatment_2023\} & Ex-situ & This study explores various chemical pretreatment methods to facilitate the acid hydrolysis of Omani Prosopis juliflora wood. SEM and XRD were employed to assess the effectiveness of these pretreatments by analyzing changes in the cellulose crystallinity and the structural integrity of the wood. The results offer crucial insights into optimizing hydrolysis conditions to maximize the conversion of cellulose to sugars.\\\\\
\
6 & FTIR, NMR & \\cite\{wang_effects_2017\} & Ex-situ & This study examines how varying durations of acid hydrolysis affect the properties of starch-based wood adhesives. FTIR and NMR were utilized to analyze the changes in molecular structure and composition, assessing improvements in viscosity, bonding performance, and water resistance. These techniques provided comprehensive insights into the chemical modifications induced by hydrolysis, crucial for optimizing adhesive formulations.\\\\\
\
7 & Pyrolysis-Gas Chromatography (Py-GC) & \\cite\{__1997\} & Ex-situ & This study employs Pyrolysis-Gas Chromatography (Py-GC) to analyze the structural characteristics of lignin in wood pulps subjected to various acid hydrolysis conditions. Py-GC provided detailed insights into the chemical composition of acid-insoluble residues, facilitating a deeper understanding of the lignin's behavior during hydrolysis and the impact of different hydrolysis conditions on wood pulp.\\\\\
\
8 & High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) & \\cite\{noauthor_study_nodate\} & Ex-situ & This study utilizes High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) to determine the glucose and xylose content after acid hydrolysis of thermally modified ash wood. The HPLC method allowed precise quantification of these sugars, providing insights into how thermal modification in a nitrogen atmosphere affects the hydrolysis efficiency and sugar recovery from wood.\\\\\
\
9 & Acid Prehydrolysis, Steam Explosion & \\cite\{grethlein_common_1991\} & Ex-situ & This study explores the use of acid prehydrolysis and steam explosion as methods to enhance the enzymatic hydrolysis of wood by increasing the available surface area and pore volume. These pretreatment methods are crucial for improving the accessibility of cellulase enzymes to cellulose, thus facilitating more efficient breakdown and sugar release from wood.\\\\\
\
10 & Various NDT methods (not specified) & \\cite\{niemz_non-destructive_2012\} & Not specified & This comprehensive review discusses a range of NDT methods for wood and wood-based materials, covering their applications in controlling production processes and assessing cultural heritage objects. The paper emphasizes the importance of understanding wood physics to effectively apply NDT methods for evaluating wood properties and degradation under various conditions.\
\
\
\\mybold\{Oxidation in Wood and Associated NDT Methods\}:\
Oxidation in wood encompasses the chemical reactions that occur when wood is exposed to oxygen, often accelerated by environmental factors like UV light, moisture, and pollutants. These oxidative processes can lead to significant changes in the wood's color, strength, and chemical composition, impacting its structural integrity and aesthetic value.  NDT methods play a pivotal role in identifying and assessing these changes, providing critical insights into the extent and nature of oxidative damage without causing further deterioration to the wood.\
\
A variety of NDT methods have been utilized to study oxidation in wood effectively. Ultrasonic testing, as discussed by \\cite\{niemz_non-destructive_2012-1, niemz_non-destructive_2012, agrawal_non-destructive_2010\}, assesses the internal state of wood by measuring sound wave velocity and attenuation, which can indicate oxidative damage and overall decay. The vibration-impulse excitation technique, highlighted by \\cite\{machek_non-destructive_2004\}, analyzes wood\'92s dynamic response to mechanical vibrations, detecting early stages of decay including oxidative effects. Further, advanced imaging techniques such as computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), discussed by \\cite\{fernandez_3d_2001\}, provide comprehensive 3D views of the internal structures of wood, pinpointing areas affected by oxidation.\
\
Additional techniques include the use of GPR, thermal methods, and microwaves, which offer detailed insights into the wood\'92s internal conditions, as reviewed by \\cite\{zielinska_non-destructive_2021\}. Ultrasonic and radiographic testing are also effective in providing detailed images of the internal structure and detecting changes in wood density and integrity, as demonstrated by Ross et al. (1998) in their assessment of wood members in the USS Constitution \\cite\{ross_assessing_1998\}. \\cite\{riggio_situ_2014, kloiber_mechanical_2014\} employ digital radioscopy and semi-destructive pin penetration techniques respectively, to assess structural timber and mechanical properties of wood, further indicating the versatility of NDT methods in detecting oxidative and other forms of degradation.\
\
The diverse array of NDT methods detailed in Table \\ref\{table: oxidation\} underlines the significant role these techniques play in the field of wood conservation and research. By utilizing these methods, researchers and conservators can better understand the oxidative degradation processes in wood and implement more effective strategies to mitigate damage, ensuring the longevity and preservation of wood in various applications. These methods not only help maintain the structural integrity of wood but also preserve its aesthetic qualities, making them invaluable tools in the management of wood resources.\
\
\
1 & Ultrasonic Testing, IRT, X-ray Imaging, Acoustic Emission & \\cite\{niemz_non-destructive_2012-1\} & In-situ & This comprehensive review discusses various NDT methods including ultrasonic testing, IRT, X-ray imaging, and acoustic emission. These methods are crucial for evaluating wood properties and degradation, including the effects of oxidative damage, in various applications such as production control and cultural heritage conservation.\\\\\
\
\
2 & Ultrasonic Testing & \\cite\{niemz_non-destructive_2012\} & Not specified & This study uses ultrasonic NDT to evaluate wood decay, including changes resulting from oxidative processes. Ultrasonic testing assesses the internal state of the wood by measuring the velocity and attenuation of sound waves, providing insights into the extent of decay and potential oxidative damage within the wood structure.\\\\\
\
\
3 & Ultrasonic Testing & \\cite\{agrawal_non-destructive_2010\} & Not specified & This study focuses on the application of ultrasonic testing to evaluate the physical and mechanical properties of wood, which are influenced by various factors including oxidation. Ultrasonic techniques provide a non-destructive means to assess the integrity and quality of wood, highlighting changes in properties such as density, elasticity, and internal defects that may result from oxidative damage.\\\\\
\
4 & Vibration-Impulse Excitation Technique & \\cite\{machek_non-destructive_2004\} & Both & This study employs the vibration-impulse excitation technique as an NDT method to assess decay in preservative-treated wood. The technique is effective in detecting the early stages of wood decay, including changes that may occur due to oxidative processes, by analyzing the wood's dynamic response to mechanical vibrations.\\\\\
\
5 & Vibration Testing Methods & \\cite\{noauthor_non-destructive_nodate\} & Not specified & This study explores the use of various vibration testing methods, including sub-sonic, sonic, and ultrasonic vibrations, to assess the structural integrity and quality of wood. These methods are particularly effective in detecting internal defects and changes due to oxidation by evaluating the wood\'92s response to mechanical vibrations.\\\\\
\
\
6 & Computed Tomography (CT), Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) & \\cite\{fernandez_3d_2001\} & Not specified & This study highlights the use of advanced 3D non-destructive evaluation techniques such as Computed Tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) for detailed analysis of wood. These methods provide comprehensive insights into the internal structure of wood, detecting changes and defects that may be caused by oxidative damage or other degradation processes.\\\\\
\
7 & GPR, Thermal Techniques, Microwaves & \\cite\{zielinska_non-destructive_2021\} & Not specified & This comprehensive review discusses the use of GPR, thermal techniques, and microwaves as NDT methods for assessing wooden elements. These methods provide deep insights into the internal condition of wooden structures, highlighting their capabilities and limitations in identifying structural defects and assessing material integrity, including changes due to oxidation.\\\\\
\
\
8 & Ultrasonic Testing, Radiographic Testing & \\cite\{ross_assessing_1998\} & Both & This study utilizes ultrasonic testing and radiographic testing to evaluate the condition of wood members in the USS Constitution. These techniques are particularly effective in identifying deterioration, including that caused by oxidative processes, by providing detailed images of the internal structure and detecting changes in density and integrity.\\\\\
\
9 & Digital Radioscopy, GPR & \\cite\{riggio_situ_2014\} & In-situ & This study employs digital radioscopy and GPR as non-destructive techniques for the in-situ assessment of structural timber. These methods are crucial for examining internal defects and changes in timber, including those caused by oxidative processes, without disturbing the structural integrity of the material.\\\\\
\
10 & Pin Penetration Techniques & \\cite\{kloiber_mechanical_2014\} & Not specified & This study investigates the mechanical properties of wood using semi-destructive pin penetration techniques. While slightly invasive, these methods allow for the assessment of wood hardness and integrity, providing insights into mechanical changes that may result from oxidative damage or other deteriorative processes.\\\\\
\
\
\\mybold\{Alkaline Degradation in Wood and the Role of NDT Methods\}:\
Alkaline degradation in wood can lead to significant changes in its chemical composition and mechanical properties, particularly when exposed to high pH substances. This form of degradation is especially prevalent in certain industrial settings or where wood is exposed to environmental alkalis. The use of  NDT methods is essential in these contexts, as they allow for the precise evaluation of wood's condition without causing further damage, which is crucial for guiding effective preservation or remediation efforts.\
\
\\cite\{han_even_2020\} applied a range of sophisticated NDT techniques such as nanoindentation, ATR-FTIR imaging, Raman imaging, 13C-solid state NMR, Pyrolysis-GC/MS, Wide Angle X-ray Scattering, and N2 Nitrogen Adsorption to assess the structural and chemical deterioration of waterlogged archaeological wood. These methods revealed significant degradation, providing insights into the mechanical properties and chemical structure changes that were not apparent visually. \\cite\{costa_impact_2023\} utilized visual inspection, mass variation, SEM, and tensile tests to explore wood deterioration due to chlorine exposure, offering detailed morphological and mechanical insights. \\cite\{seo_chemical_2020\} detected subtle chemical changes in wood buried in an intertidal zone using FT-IR spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, and ICP analysis, highlighting environmental impacts on wood chemistry.\
\
 \\cite\{emmerich_wood_2021\} focused on the impact of non-fixated chemicals in modified wood, using cold-water leaching cycles to show how significant amounts of these chemicals could be removed, potentially leading to erroneous durability classifications. Similarly, \\cite\{wang_correction_2020\} reviewed the effects of long-term humidity exposure on wood, utilizing artificially accelerated aging and outdoor exposure tests to understand how different humidity levels affect wood's mechanical properties, providing critical data for assessing material performance under various environmental conditions.\
\
 The collection of studies detailed in Table \\ref\{table: alkalin\} illustrates the diverse approaches and NDT methodologies employed to understand and manage alkaline degradation in wood. Through these NDT methods, researchers can gain in-depth knowledge of the degradation processes and develop strategies for preserving wood's structural integrity and aesthetic value under challenging conditions. These techniques are vital for ongoing efforts to extend the lifespan and maintain the utility of wood in various applications, particularly those exposed to harsh chemical environments.\
\
\
1 & Nanoindentation, ATR-FTIR Imaging, Raman Imaging, 13C-solid state NMR, Pyrolysis-GC/MS, Wide Angle X-ray Scattering, N2 Nitrogen Adsorption & \\cite\{han_even_2020\} & In-situ & This study investigates the structural and chemical deterioration of visually intact cell walls in waterlogged archaeological wood from a 170-year-old shipwreck. Techniques like nanoindentation, ATR-FTIR imaging, and Raman imaging, along with others, were used to assess changes in mechanical properties, cellulose crystallite structure, and porosity, revealing significant degradation despite the wood's intact appearance.\\\\\
\
2 & Visual Inspection, Mass Variation, SEM, Tensile Test & \\cite\{costa_impact_2023\} & In-situ & This experimental study analyzes the deterioration of beech and oak wood exposed to chlorine using a variety of assessment methods. Visual inspections and mass variation measurements provide initial indications of degradation, while SEM offers detailed morphological insights. Tensile tests further quantify the mechanical integrity of the wood, especially after exposure to high concentrations of chlorine. These methods together provide a comprehensive evaluation of the wood's resistance to chlorine-induced degradation and structural weakening.\\\\\
\
3 & FT-IR Spectroscopy, X-ray Diffraction (XRD), ICP Analysis & \\cite\{seo_chemical_2020\} & In-situ & This study explores the chemical changes in Korean red pine and sawtooth oak wood buried in an intertidal zone over six months. FT-IR spectroscopy and XRD were employed to assess the minimal changes in the wood's chemical structure, while ICP analysis showed an increase in sodium and sulfur due to accumulation in the wood's cell lumen. These techniques highlight the subtle yet significant alterations in wood chemistry due to environmental exposure.\\\\\
\
4 & Cold-water leaching cycles & \\cite\{emmerich_wood_2021\} & Ex-situ & focuses on the impact of non-fixated chemicals, specifically N-methylol and N-methyl compounds, in modified wood and how they influence fungal mass loss measurements and durability classification. The wood samples underwent treatment with 1,3-dimethylol-4,5-dihydroxyethyleneurea (DMDHEU), methylated DMDHEU (mDMDHEU), and 1,3-dimethyl-4,5-dihydroxyethyleneurea (DMeDHEU) and were subjected to consecutive cold-water leaching cycles. This method highlighted that significant amounts of non-fixated chemicals could be removed, potentially affecting durability classifications erroneously.\\\\\
\
5 & Artificially Accelerated Aging, Outdoor Exposure Tests & \\cite\{wang_correction_2020\} & Ex-situ & This paper reviews the methods used to study the long-term effects of humidity on wood and wood-based products. The most common methods are artificially accelerated aging and outdoor exposure tests, which help understand how prolonged exposure to different humidity levels affects the mechanical properties of wood. These methods provide valuable insights into the durability and performance of wood in various environmental conditions.\\\\\
\
\
\\subsubsubsection\{Biological Deterioration\} \\textbf\{Fungal Decay, Insect Damage, and Bacterial Decay\}:\
\
The biological deterioration of wood is a significant concern in both natural and built environments, affecting everything from forest ecosystems to cultural heritage artifacts. This type of deterioration can be caused by a variety of organisms, including fungi, insects, and bacteria, each of which interacts with wood in unique ways. Fungi can break down cellulose and lignin, leading to structural weakness; insects such as termites and beetles may tunnel through wood causing physical damage; and bacteria can degrade wood under certain wet or anaerobic conditions, typically in waterlogged environments.  NDT methods are crucial for identifying and evaluating these types of wood damage without causing further harm to the wood itself, providing essential data for conservation, treatment, and management strategies.\
\
Fungal decay represents a significant challenge to the integrity and preservation of wood. Utilizing advanced NDT methods such as isothermal microcalorimetry, DNA-based methods, and traditional biomass assays like ergosterol or chitin, researchers have developed deeper insights into how fungi interact with wood moisture and initiate decay processes \\cite\{brischke_wood-water_2020\}. Techniques such as advanced biochemical analyses further elaborate on the molecular dynamics of how fungi degrade wood, which is critical for developing targeted fungal management and treatment strategies \\cite\{goodell_fungal_2020\}. Additionally, studies using X-ray CT scanning have demonstrated the ability to non-destructively assess the dynamics of wood decay, enabling the monitoring of decay patterns and understanding the material structure's influence on these processes \\cite\{ligne_studying_2022\}. These sophisticated methodologies not only enhance our understanding of fungal decay but also aid in the predictive modeling of decay progression, crucial for conservation and structural assessment \\cite\{ran_evaluation_2022\}.\
\
Insect damage, particularly from species like termites, drastically affects wood's physical and mechanical properties. Through methods such as visual inspection, mass variation, and mechanical testing, researchers can evaluate how termite activity impacts wood hardness, density, and structural integrity \\cite\{gallio_characterization_2020\}. Additionally, the study of wood in environments like mangrove ecosystems, where wood-boring and wood-decaying organisms thrive, utilizes similar techniques to identify the organisms involved and assess the extent of damage caused by these species \\cite\{risnasari_deterioration_2021\}. Furthermore, visual inspection and morphological analysis in historical timber structures reveal how insect activity varies with environmental factors and proximity to the ground, providing essential data for managing and mitigating insect-related deterioration \\cite\{dong_deterioration_2023\}.\
\
Bacterial decay, particularly in waterlogged or anaerobic conditions, poses significant risks to archaeological wooden artifacts. Techniques such as DNA metabarcoding and OM are pivotal in identifying and characterizing the microbial communities responsible for this decay, especially erosion bacteria and soft-rot fungi [\\cite\{beccaccioli_neolithic_2023\}]. These methods offer a comprehensive view of the microbial interactions and their impact on wood conservation, crucial for developing effective preservation strategies. In addition, studies using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and SEM provide insights into the chemical and microstructural changes in wood, enhancing our understanding of bacterial decay mechanisms and their implications on wood preservation [\\cite\{ghavidel_degradation_2023\}].\
\
\
\
Biological deterioration in wood, caused by fungal decay, insect damage, and bacterial degradation, poses significant threats to both structural integrity and historical value. Effective management and conservation of wood require advanced diagnostic approaches that enable early detection and monitoring without damaging the material.  NDT methods are crucial in these efforts, providing valuable insights into the condition of wood and the extent of biological deterioration.\
\
As summarized in Table \\ref\{table: biological\}, various NDT tools and techniques have been employed to study and understand the different forms of biological decay in wood. These include:\
\
\\begin\{itemize\}\
    \\item \\mybold\{Isothermal Microcalorimetry\}: Used to measure fungal metabolic activity, providing insights into the active decay processes within the wood.\
    \\item \\mybold\{DNA-based Methods (e.g., T-RFLP, qRT-PCR)\}: Effective for identifying fungal species and quantifying fungal biomass, crucial for assessing fungal diversity and activity levels in deteriorated wood.\
    \\item \\mybold\{Advanced Biochemical Analyses\}: Help in understanding the biochemical pathways through which fungi degrade wood, enhancing the development of targeted fungal decay management strategies.\
    \\item \\mybold\{Visual Inspection and Morphological Analysis\}: Fundamental for assessing physical damage caused by insects and evaluating the overall condition of wood structures in situ.\
    \\item \\mybold\{Mechanical Testing (e.g., Janka Hardness Test, Compression Test)\}: Provides quantitative data on the mechanical properties of wood, reflecting the impact of insect activity on wood hardness and structural integrity.\
    \\item \\mybold\{X-ray Computed Tomography Scanning\}: Offers detailed insights into the internal structure of wood, enabling the visualization of decay patterns and the assessment of material density changes over time.\
    \\item \\mybold\{Optical Microscopy\}: Aids in the detailed observation of microbial colonization patterns and wood microstructure, critical for identifying bacterial and fungal deterioration.\
    \\item \\mybold\{X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) and SEM\}: These techniques are used to analyze surface chemistry and microstructural changes in wood, providing detailed views of the deterioration mechanisms at the molecular level.\
\\end\{itemize\}\
\
The integration of these NDT methods into regular monitoring and assessment protocols allows for a comprehensive understanding of the dynamic interactions between wood and biological agents. By employing these techniques, conservationists, and structural engineers can devise more effective preservation and treatment strategies, ultimately extending the life and maintaining the integrity of wood in various applications.\
\
\
\
1 & Isothermal Microcalorimetry, DNA-based Methods (e.g., T-RFLP, qRT-PCR), Ergosterol or Chitin Assays & \\cite\{brischke_wood-water_2020\} & Ex-situ & This paper explores the susceptibility of wood to fungal decay through advanced techniques like isothermal microcalorimetry to measure fungal metabolic activity, DNA-based methods for identifying and quantifying fungal biomass, and traditional biomass assays (ergosterol or chitin). These methods provide comprehensive insights into the dynamic interaction between wood moisture and fungal activity, offering a deeper understanding of fungal decay processes in wood.\\\\\
\
2 & Visual Inspection, Mass Variation, Janka Hardness Test, Compression Test & \\cite\{gallio_characterization_2020\} & In-situ & This study examines the effects of Nasutitermes termites on Pinus elliottii wood, focusing on how termite activity alters its physical and mechanical properties. Methods such as visual inspection, mass variation, the Janka hardness test, and compression tests parallel to the fibers were employed to assess the impact of termite deterioration on wood hardness, density, and structural integrity.\\\\\
\
3 & Isothermal Microcalorimetry, DNA-Based Methods, Advanced Biochemical Analyses & \\cite\{goodell_fungal_2020\} & Ex-situ & This paper provides a comprehensive review of fungal degradation of wood, challenging traditional classifications of decay types and introducing advanced biochemical analyses and DNA-based methods to understand the complex processes involved. Techniques like isothermal microcalorimetry are highlighted for their sensitivity in monitoring fungal decay, providing new insights into how fungi attack and degrade wood at the molecular level.\\\\\
\
4 & Visual Inspection, Identification of Organisms (Teredo navalis, Balanus sp., various fungi) & \\cite\{risnasari_deterioration_2021\} & In-situ & This study investigates the deterioration of three types of wood submerged in a mangrove ecosystem, assessing the impact of saltwater and various wood-boring and wood-decaying organisms. After six months of underwater exposure, significant deterioration was noted, with species such as Teredo navalis and various fungi actively contributing to the wood decay. Visual inspection and organism identification were the primary methods used to evaluate the extent and nature of the deterioration.\\\\\
\
5 & Macroscopic Observation, Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (T-RFLP), Cloning, Sequencing, Semi-Destructive Sampling & \\cite\{hizal_species_2023\} & Not specified & This study investigates the species and deterioration of wood used in traditional Turkish houses, focusing on multiple wood types including Pinus, Abies, Populus, and Quercus. Macroscopic observation revealed extensive weathering, fungi, and insect damage, particularly in the pine and fir used for structural elements. Advanced molecular techniques like T-RFLP, cloning, and sequencing were employed to identify the species of fungi and other organisms responsible for the decay.\\\\\
\
6 & Visual Inspection, Morphological Analysis, Physical and Mechanical Testing & \\cite\{dong_deterioration_2023\} & In-situ & This study explores the deterioration of wood in historical timber structures at the Yunnan Military Academy, focusing on eaves, beam frames, and columns. Deterioration was analyzed through visual inspection, morphological structure analysis, and physical and mechanical property testing. The study found that wood deterioration varied significantly based on location, with eaves most affected by environmental factors like UV rays, rain, and fungal activity, while columns were primarily damaged by insects due to proximity to the ground.\\\\\
\
7 & Macroscopic Observation, Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (T-RFLP), Cloning, Sequencing, Semi-Destructive Sampling & \\cite\{hizal_species_2023\} & Not specified & This study investigates the species and deterioration of wood used in traditional Turkish houses, focusing on multiple wood types including Pinus, Abies, Populus, and Quercus. Macroscopic observation revealed extensive weathering, fungi, and insect damage, particularly in the pine and fir used for structural elements. Advanced molecular techniques like T-RFLP, cloning, and sequencing were employed to identify the species of fungi and other organisms responsible for the decay.\\\\\
\
8 & FT-IR Spectroscopy, XRD, Helium Pycnometry, Nitrogen Absorption & \\cite\{broda_effects_2022\} & Ex-situ & This study investigates the chemical composition and microstructure changes in Scots pine wood subjected to biological (using brown-rot fungus Coniophora puteana) and chemical (using NaOH solution) degradation under laboratory conditions. Techniques like FT-IR Spectroscopy, XRD, helium pycnometry, and nitrogen absorption were utilized to analyze changes in cellulose crystallinity, lignin modification, and overall cell wall microstructure, revealing significant alterations in pore size and density.\\\\\
\
9 & X-ray Computed Tomography (CT) Scanning & \\cite\{ligne_studying_2022\} & Ex-situ & This study presents a novel application of X-ray CT scanning to non-destructively assess the dynamics of wood decay under laboratory conditions. The setup enables the monitoring of temporal decay patterns and the influence of material structure on decay processes. Severely degraded wood specimens showed significant changes in density over time, underscoring the sensitivity of this method to detect and quantify fungal degradation within wood.\\\\\
\
10 & X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS), Dynamic Water Vapor Sorption Analysis, Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy (FESEM) & \\cite\{ghavidel_degradation_2023\} & Not specified & This study assesses the degradation of approximately 600\'96650-year-old archaeological oak buried under oxygen-limited conditions. Techniques like XPS revealed changes in chemical composition indicative of lignin degradation, while dynamic water vapor sorption analysis showed differences in moisture handling between degraded and sound wood. FESEM was used to observe microstructural changes and bacterial degradation patterns, providing a detailed view of the deterioration mechanisms in the archaeological wood.\\\\\
\
\
11 & Nonlinear Fitting Model, Logistic Equation & \\cite\{ran_evaluation_2022\} & Not specified & This study aims to understand how various types of fungi contribute to wood degradation, utilizing a laboratory setup to monitor decomposition rates. Nonlinear fitting models and logistic equations were used to describe the degradation speed of different fungi at various humidity levels, providing insights into the dynamic interactions between fungi and wood fiber. This mathematical approach allows for predicting fungal behavior in wood decomposition, enhancing the understanding of fungal decay mechanisms.\\\\\
\
12 & DNA Metabarcoding, OM & \\cite\{beccaccioli_neolithic_2023\} & In-situ & This study analyzes the microbial communities responsible for the deterioration of waterlogged archaeological wood at the Neolithic site 'La Marmotta.' Using DNA metabarcoding and OM, the research identifies and characterizes erosion bacteria and soft-rot fungi as the primary agents of decay. The study underscores the complexity of microbial interactions in waterlogged conditions and their significant impact on archaeological wood conservation.\\\\\
\
13 & Hygrothermal Simulation, Mold Growth Modeling, Mechanical Deterioration Modeling & \\cite\{choidis_climate_2022\} & Not specified & This study investigates the impact of climate change on historically significant wooden furniture in Vestfold, Norway, focusing on a cabinet and a storage trunk. Using hydrothermal simulations to model interior climate conditions, the research assesses the risk of mechanical and chemical degradation due to changes in temperature and humidity. The study also explores the potential for biological deterioration using updated mold growth models, revealing a significant risk of mechanical degradation and a high chemical deterioration risk under future climate scenarios.\\\\\
\
14 & Direct Analysis in Real Time - Mass Spectrometry (DART-MS), Chemometrics & \\cite\{guo_evaluation_2020\} & Not specified & This study develops a non-destructive evaluation protocol using DART-MS coupled with chemometrics to assess the deterioration state of archaeological wooden artifacts. By analyzing changes in chemical composition, particularly lignin and polysaccharide degradation, this method effectively classifies wood artifacts into three groups based on their deterioration state, offering a rapid and accurate assessment technique for conservation purposes.\\\\\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}